
:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
         -----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
         (313)558-5024 - Supra 14.4 - Sysop: Gug
               A Game Master Support BBS
          RPG, Homebrew Beer,  & Fiction Text
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Thu Aug  2 08:53:52 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: The Quest for Axe of the Dwarven Lords
Keywords: story
Date: 30 Jul 90 20:52:31 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


Background:  This adventure is from an ongoing dungeon that currently
uses a modified form of RoleMaster.  As the chronicles unfold, you'll
notice that while spells were described by name in the beginning, we
eventually switched to describing the apparent effects, so that no
knowledge of the playing system is now required. 
	Having defeated the "false gods", the party agrees to aid Felicia
as she searches for the legendary "Axe of the Dwarven Lords".  The whole
affair seems misguided, the last Dwarves died centuries ago, but we can't
let her run off by herself, so we come along.  The chronicles begin as
the party leaves Muerse (home of the sstoi'isslythi, aka, serpent-men).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
		WE SET OFF TO FIND THE AXE (AT LAST)


It is mid-morning on the 17 day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:  88
	sky:  clear
	wind:  30 mph (moderate gale)

Crys (and others) ask if there are any legends known in the town about
the caves (always some truth in them) or if anyone is known to have
entered and returned from them.  Supposedly searching for rumors, Todd
and Elured manage to instigate a brawl in one tavern.  [Ed. They later
tell how they fought off more than a thousand sstoi'isslythi with their
bare hands - in a town of five hundred or so ....]

We uncover the following tales:
  1-	Riches beyond imagining are to be found in the Dwarven ruins.
  2-	The Dwarves were destroyed when their wells were poisoned.
  3-	Undead dwarven spirits defend the ruins against intrusion.
  4-	The cave entrance is guarded by cerebi.
  5-	No one has ever returned from the catacombs.
  6-	No one has tried to enter the catacombs in hundreds of years.

We find a package, delivered by a peregrine falcon, waiting for us at
Leethth's.  It's addressed to Princess Leia, Lady Crystine or Sir Ragnor.
Crys opens it.  It's from Queen Ariel.  She wishes us success and
expresses hope that the enclosed 'pebbles' will prove useful.  Winston
has placed some kind of spell on them to make them explode on impact.
Alicia sends the falcon back with our thanks.  Ragnor takes eight to use
with his sling.  Crys pockets the last four.

After lunch, Leethth shows us where the entrance to the catacombs can be
found and wishes us luck.  As we assemble near the opening, Alicia warns
that there are five creatures moving about inside, between 50 and 100
feet from the entrance.  We fan out and prepare missile type attacks
(both weapon and spells).

Crys fires a 'cold ball' from her staff and follows with a 'fire ball'.
Ragnor hurls one of the 'magic pebbles' from Winston with his sling -
there's an explosion.  Alicia says one is coming.  We watch, but don't
see anything until it appears right before us!  It attacks Ragnor, Jhere
and Elured with its three heads.  Ragnor gets in a blow with his maul
before he staggers back, Elured hacks it with his greatsword, Jhere hits
it with an arrow and Leia with a 'fire bolt'.  Todd attempts to jump on
its back and knife it, but ends up sticking his dagger into its knee.
The cerebus collapses under the onslaught and dies before making any
other attacks.

Kidd 'presences' four intelligences at the limit of his range, about
sixty feet from the entrance.

When no one is looking (though Jhere catches the action out of the corner
of her eye), almost unconsciously, Alicia plucks a flower from the wreath
in her hair.  It transforms into a slender green reed: baalak!  Just what
she needs to heal Ragnor's shoulder.  She casts 'instant herbal cures' on
it.  Leia brings a cup of water to a boil with 'boil water' from her holy
symbol and Alicia brew the curing draught.  Ragnor drinks it and finds
that he can use his shoulder again.  Kidd reports that the intelligences
in the cave are still right at the limit of his range, unmoving.

Todd goes in to try to entice them out.  They don't take the bait.  He
systematically places torches to light the passageway.  But when he
tosses one that would light up the area that the intelligences occupy,
it is immediately extinguished.

We decide to attack on two fronts.  Kidd can get behind them.  Crys can
get others behind as well.  The rest will close from this side.  A couple
of us try to 'intuition' what lays beyond the creatures, but the spells
come to an abrupt end when we try to pass.

Crys casts the first 'leaving' on Elured.  He appears behind them, lit
torch still in hand.  He places the torch and grabs his sword, just as
one attacks him.  Alicia warns of the sudden movement within the cave.
Kidd uses 'leaving' from his circlet to come to Elured's aid.  Crys does
a 'time restore II' and casts 'leaving' on Jhere to get her back there
quickly, as well.  They arrive as Elured goes down under the attacks of
a cerebus!  They attack and distract the creature from finishing him off.

We close from in front.  Crys hurls a 'cold ball' into what she figures
is the middle of other three cerebi.  She figures well, but underestimates
the area of effect within the cavern's confines and gets most of us as
well!  Leia uses 'firestorm' and 'triad of flame' from her holy symbol
and Ragnor, Felicia and Todd move in to finish them off.  Todd executes
a brilliant manuever, leaping onto the back of one of them and sinking
his dagger into it - this inspires all of us within sight!  Crys casts
'long door' upon one of them and it disappears from view - there is an
ominous cracking sound from the ceiling above, but nothing falls on us,
though we hasten from the spot.

Soon it's all over except the healing.  Somehow, Elured manages to repair
his wounds enough to regain consciousness.  Meanwhile, Alicia gives Jhere
a fek nut from her supplies to stop her bleeding.  Then she has all the
injured gather close to her as she burns a nodule of rewk within her
censer.  As we inhale the smoke, much (in some cases all) of our wounds
are healed!

[Although we are unaware of it, Todd and Crys have crossed a 'symbol'
 that will manifest its properties and some later time.]

Jhere reminds us that we left our supplies outside when we came in to do
battle - so we'd better go out and gather them up.

Alicia pulls another flower from her wreath, concentrates and says
"gursamel".  She also thinks to herself that it is important, there is a
bone that needs to be healed, and it should be permanent.  The flower
withers in her hand.

We retrieve our packs and head deeper into the cavern, it slopes
downward gradually and begins to narrow and curve to the right.

A passage joins ours from the left.  Todd concentrates and believes
that the side passage widens greatly after the first 10-20 feet.  We
decide to set up our camp just before the intersection.

During the first watch Kidd is dreaming about finding the Axe of the
Dwarven Lords in a cavern with a column when he's awakened by shouting.
Todd is under attack by a nearly invisible gelatinous creature (Jhere
later identifies them as 'chameleon amoebas').  Leia tries to discover
if we're under attack by undead.  Crys and Alicia try to put the thing
to sleep (without success).  Elured attacks the thing as it envelops
Todd.  It switches its attentions to Elured.  He nearly smothers before
Ragnor, Jhere and Felicia get him free.  Jhere and Ragnor torch it.
Ragnor and Felicia pound and slice it.  It withers up and dies.  Jhere
gets another on the end of her staff and manages to pound it into the
wall of the side corridor as yet another tries to embrace her.  The one
on her staff loses hold and she backs out as they slither off.  Crys
hurls a cold ball and Leia a fire ball into the area where we'd last
fought them.  We decide to spend the rest of the night outside and
retreat to the mouth of the cave.

The night is warm and uneventful for the remainder.  Leia dreams of
wandering through caverns and ancient ruins in seeking the Axe.

We head back into the cavern after breakfast.

Not too far beyond last night's "resting" place, Alicia warns us of
something coming up fast.  We barely have time to drop our packs and
ready our weapons before they're upon us - huge hound-like beasts with
dark coats and glowing eyes!  [Ed. Night hounds.]  One bites Ragnor,
another bellows forth a cloud of foul vapors directly into Elured's
face!  Somehow he avoids succumbing to the odor, but the rest of us are
knocked out!  Leia's holy symbol glows futilely as she collapses before
she can hurl Brigit's fire at the creatures.  Ragnor pulps the one in
front of him with his maul as Elured swings his two-handed sword
ineffectively at the foul-breathed monster facing him.  Other beasts
crowd behind the leaders of the pack, slavering for the chance to gnaw
the flesh from our bones.  Crys awakens, having spent her unconsciousness
in alternative time.  She then uses the last moments of her saved time
to instantly produce an electrical field encompassing most of the beasts.
Leia's holy symbol glows brightly and she comes instantly awake.  Ragnor
and Elured are mauled by two of the creatures as Leia creates a storm of
fire in their midst.  Between Leia's and Crys' magic and subsequent
fire bolts from them, the remaining beasts are quickly dispensed.

Most of us are still unconscious, Ragnor is bleeding, Elured's left
thumb was nearly torn off (but will heal in five hours, thanks to his
marvelous recuperative powers).

[to be continued, if there is interest ...]
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Mon Aug  6 11:19:06 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: The Quest for Axe of the Dwarven Lords (2)
Keywords: story
Date: 3 Aug 90 20:11:18 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories

[oops -- the events in the previously published part 2 were jumbled during
 assembly (3 source files) --- this is an unscrambled version]
[this will probably reach your site after part 3 ...]


		WE RECOVER FROM CANINE HALITOSIS
		WE PERSUADE SOME OGRES TO LET US PASS
		THE MIGHTY FALL AND KIDD SAVES THE DAY

It is mid-morning on the 18th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~70 (we're in the catacombs...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

Ragnor is still bleeding badly; Elured tells him to dig into his belt pouch
and pull out the vials (Elured's injured thumb prevents him from doing it
himself).  He selects one and Ragnor downs it's contents in a single gulp.
The bleeding stops.

Meanwhile Leia prays to Brigit to awaken the rest of us and her holy symbol
again glows, but nothing else seems to happen.  Then she goes into a trance
to try to provide advance warning of anyone (or thing) approaching us.
Jhere regains consciousness and finds Alicia, Todd and Kidd still in a coma,
Ragnor and Elured busy trying to heal their wounds, Crys and Felicia
discussing what to do next and Leia apparently meditating.  She begins
moving our equipment to one side of the passage, so we can be ready to move.
She then lights her lantern and sets it in our midst and heads forward to
stand guard, with an arrow notched in her bow.  Elured meditates and after
roughly nine minutes, his wounds are gone!

We move past the dead night hounds (carrying our unconscious comrades) so
we can eat without the unappetizing stench of their charred flesh.  Once
we are downwind of the carnage, we eat lunch.  Eventually, all save Alicia
are awake.  Ragnor carries her slight form and we penetrate deeper into the
cave.  We reach a fork and decide to make camp for the night just inside
the narrower branch.  Jhere searches carefully (holding her torch as high
as she can) for chameleon amoebas.  She doesn't find any, but does discover
a purple mold growing on the upper portion of the left wall!  As Alicia has
finally awakened (a little surprised to be in Ragnor arms), she asks to be
lifted up to where she can examine the mold more closely.  Ragnor steps to
her aid, lifting her easily above his head.  [Ed. his efforts are rewarded
by a view of more than a bit of leg, but that's another story...]  She casts
two spells and shrugs, disappointed.  As Ragnor lowers her to the floor she
informs us that it's not an useful herb as best she can tell.

We discuss making temporary earthen barricades (Leia can do it magically),
but decide against it when we are told they will only persist for a few
minutes.  We eat dinner and set watches.  Alicia burns a thurl clove in her
censer and Ragnor inhales the vapors, recovering from some of his wounds a
bit.

The night passes quietly.  After we breakfast, we explore the branch we've
entered.  In one direction, our way is blocked by rubble from an ancient
collapse.  Felicia climbs nimbly to the top, but cannot find any way over
the obstruction, nor can we find a way around it.  We turn back.  Another
corridor narrows to just a couple of feet wide.  Kidd concentrates and,
after a few minutes, tells us that it opens into a substantial chamber
with no other exit.  We return to the fork and once again proceed down the
"main" passage.

The passage curves slowly to the left.  After less than a hundred feet,
Alicia warns that six large creatures are headed our way.  We halt and
prepare to fight.  They amble slowly closer, finally Kidd can sense them
and tells us that whatever they are, they're not terribly bright.  They
halt about fifty feet from us, still out of view, and apparently engage
in some kind of discussion (we catch a few unintelligible sounds from that
direction).  We wait.

We're ready and waiting and waiting and ... whatever is around the bend
isn't coming any closer.  The argument grows in volume, but we can't
understand the language.  Finally, Ragnor can't stand it any more and
raising the Maul of the Titans runs screaming toward the noise.  Jhere,
her staff still lit from Crys' spell, Elured and Todd follow in his wake.

As Ragnor (and the light) gets close enough to see them, he slows a bit.
They're humanoid and over eight feet tall - ogres!!  The stench is nearly
overwhelming.  Still he comes up behind three of them, too involved in
their argument to notice his approach, despite the noise he makes and bops
the one on the left over the head with his maul - effectively converting
the ogre to pulp!  The others notice that.

Crys rushes up and shoots a fire bolt at one that closes with Elured.
Ragnor is temporarily put out of action by a bola.  Jhere closes wielding
her quarterstaff, but gets more the she gives.  Leia blasts three with
fire bolts, Crys is clobbered by a morning star.  Todd slips into the
midst of the hand-to-hand combat unseen and suddenly pounces on one from
behind.  Felicia and Alicia shoot arrows as the opportunity presents.
Kidd shoots a fire bolt from his that goes awry, while Leia uses her holy
symbol to deliver another to the largest of the ogres.  Todd notices that
one swinging at him and drops to the ground, the blow lands solidly - on
the ogre that Todd had been attacking!  Elured's rib is broken as Ragnor
recovers.  Ragnor pulps another as Crys shocks one, Leia hits one with
a fire bolt and Jhere finally gets a solid blow in on one as it, in turn,
clobbers Todd.  The ogres are pretty groggy at this point and somehow or
another we mop them up the next few moments.

Jhere declares that she'd really love a bath!  She's covered from head to
toe with their stinking guts and blood (she'd slipped in it during the
heat of battle) and most of the rest of us are pretty well splattered, too.

Leia heals the tendon that was injured when Crys was struck by the
morning star.  Elured's rib is already setting, he tells us he can move,
as long as we take it slow, and in a few hours he'll be as good as new.
Crys creates a wall of water, and we top off our water supplies before
splashing through it to remove the ogre gore from our clothes and our
selves.

While we're preoccupied with getting clean, Todd quickly searches the
ogres' possessions and, after he washes up, he announces that he found a
large number of tin pieces and a decent number of copper pieces, if any
one is interested ...

Kidd and Felicia give two abaas leaves each to Alicia.  She burns three of
them in her censer as Crys, Elured, Ragnor and Todd breathe in the vapors.
All but Ragnor are fully healed.

We divide up the copper pieces that Todd found.  Elured takes some of the
tin pieces as well.  Felicia and Alicia recover some of their arrows.

We reach a narrow bridge.  Crys crosses first, unrolling her rope as she
goes.  Ragnor anchors one end with a spike, using his hand axe to drive it
into the wall.  Kidd takes the hand axe and a spike and vanishes, reappearing
next to Crystine.  He anchors the other side of the rope.  We cross one at
a time, holding onto the rope.  Todd runs up and leaps completely across!
Some take the extra precaution of tying a rope about their waist with a loop
around the rope.  There is a cracking sound, often loud, near the center of
the bridge as most of us cross.  Jhere comes last, wrapping the rope about her
arm as she goes.  The bridge collapses when she's halfway across!

Felicia leans over the side with her torch and calls out to Jhere.  No answer.
The rope is taut, but she can't see the end.  Then she hears Jhere call for
help.  Ragnor and Felicia reel her in.  Crys floats down and holds on to the
rope to alleviate some of the weight.  Jhere is battered and limps slightly.
She unwraps the rope from her arm - circulation painfully returns.  She has a
swig from her waterskin and says she's ready to continue.  Meanwhile Elured
makes a light snack of jerky doused with mustard.  We proceed.

We reach a fork in the corridor.  Leia and Alicia pray for guidance from their
deities and we choose to turn right.  They, at least, are convinced that that
way is the shortest route.  A couple hundred feet further, a passage joins
>from the left.  Neither Alicia nor Kidd sense the impending attack.

Ragnor knocked down by a ice bolt - with both arms broken!  Todd is stabbed by
a dagger.  Jhere's adversary spits at her!  It burns through the clothes on
her back, destroys her bedroll and her backpack and some of the contents of
the pack as well.  The flesh of her back feels as though it's on fire!

Crys thrusts her torch into the face of the now visible, humanoid creature
that felled Ragnor - it avoids the flame easily.  Crys senses that an essence
attack against her fails.  Elured starts to ready his greatsword, Felicia and
Alicia string their bows.  Leia reads a rune of "dark blinding", but it seems
not to work.  Jhere crouches and attempts to parry and twist out of the way
as her foe strikes at her with a club.  She is stuck viciously in the back!
Pieces of bones pierce vital organs and she crumples to the ground as her life
energy seeps away.  Kidd points his staff of fire bolts, and misses!  The
creature attacking Todd stabs him twice in the chest with a dagger - the
second blow punctures his heart!  He reels backward, the dagger still stuck in
his chest, and falls in a heap.

Leia prays to Brigit as she flees our attackers; Crys leaps back to safety as
well.  Elured has more ribs broken as he's struck by the one wielding a club.
Felicia shoots at one point blank as it fits an arrow to it's bow and fires
past her at Leia (both are hit).  Alicia shoots at one that spits on Kidd as
he reads a rune - it burns away the sleeve and some of the skin on his left
arm as he shields his face.

Crys drinks a potion and becomes invisible (unfortunately her clothes don't,
but she doesn't notice), with the rod of the false gods, she charges back into
the fray.  The one with the bow shoots Leia again as it in turn is shot by
Felicia.  Leia's holy symbol comes alight.  Kidd's rune takes effect sooner
than it should and takes over the mind of the club-wielder, ordering it to
attack the others!  The one that spat on him last round turns to where Todd
lays and bends to extract its dagger.

Felicia shoots the bow-wielder again at point blank range, it doesn't fire!
The dagger comes free and the creature is more than a bit surprised when it
is struck by the one Kidd controls!  It strikes back with the dagger.  Elured
hacks it with his sword.  Crys uses the "death-ray" setting and finishes off
the bow-wielder (after Alicia and Felicia feather it again with arrows).  The
one Kidd controls and Elured finish off the dagger-wielder.  Leia keeps Kidd's
and Jhere's spirits from departing their corporal forms, just before she
collapses from blood loss!  [Ed. Leia finally got close enough to recognize
the creatures as neng, demon-spawn, but fell unconscious before she could tell
anyone.]  Crys concentrates and suddenly the remaining creature is badly
wounded.  Felicia and Elured finish it off as Kidd orders it to turn its back
to them and rest against the wall.

Crys suggests that we try to get up our strength a bit before continuing.
Those of us who are able, agree whole-heartedly....
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Mon Aug  6 11:19:13 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: The Quest for Axe of the Dwarven Lords (3)
Keywords: story
Date: 3 Aug 90 19:55:39 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories

[Editor's note: lines beginning with the first letter of a character's name
 and a close bracket indicate private experience of that character -- you'll
 see what I mean in a moment :-)]


	WE HOLD THE ENEMY AT THE PASS; PICK UP OUR PIECES AND CARRY ON

It is late morning on the 19th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in the catacombs...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

Alicia plucks a flower from her wreath while praying to Mielikki for an herb
to heal Todd.  The flower withers in her hand.

Leia's prone form seems to burst into flame; we don't dare get too close to
her, but her flesh doesn't seem to be burning.  After a moment, her bleeding
ceases!

l]	Leia falls down and down and down, through darkness into a land of
l]	healing fire.  She catches a glimpse of a beautiful flame-haired
l]	woman, who smiles at Leia, then opens her hands hurling a huge ball
l]	of orange flame towards her.  Leia bows before her goddess and is
l]	bathed in the healing fires.

Elured, Felicia and Crys search the creatures for any belongings or money they
might have.  They find two shields, a club, a composite bow and quiver with a
dozen arrows, a dagger and three scrolls.  Elured wants Alicia to determine
what kind of magic is contained in the scrolls, but she is occupied with the
injured.

Kidd collapses from blood loss.  Alicia murmurs over him for a while and his
wound closes.

Leia rises to her feet, all her wounds gone, as the flames about her subside.
She offers a prayer of thanks to Brigit and asks her aid in healing Todd,
Jhere and Ragnor, who still lies moaning on the ground.  Her holy symbol glows
brighter.  A flame leaps from it to Todd's chest, but he doesn't stir.

Alicia prays again to Mielikki, asking for something with which she might aid
the injured.  Almost without knowing it, she plucks a flower from her hair.
It transforms into a silver berry - mirenna!

Another flame jumps from Leia's holy symbol, this time to Jhere's back, healing
the fracture there.  Again, healing her liver and spleen.  Then to each of
Ragnor's arms, healing the fractures there.

Now, at last, Alicia can use the mirenna.  Dragging the fallen close to each
other, calling Ragnor close as well, she burns it within her censer.  Kidd's
eyes flutter and he comes awake, Ragnor and Jhere are fully healed, Todd's
eyelids flutter but he lapses back to a state at death's threshhold.  Kidd is
warned not to try to move for a day, until the healing that Alicia has done
for him becomes permanent.

Elured finally gets Alicia's attention.  She concentrates and states that the
scrolls contain essence and so does the bow and the club!  Elured gives the
scrolls to Crystine for further analysis.  Kidd asks for the bow and arrows.
As the dagger is of fine alloy, we add it to Todd's pack.

After Crys determines the content of the scrolls, she suggests that the party
not proceed further until we rest through a night to heal and get back our
strength.  We carry Todd and Kidd away from the dead neng and prepare a camp.

Jhere discovers the full extent of the damage that the acid spit did to her
garments and belongings:  her pack, some of its contents, and her bedroll are
destroyed;  all the clothing on her back has been burned completely through.
She dons a spare tunic from what's left of her supplies, in addition to what
she was wearing, and distributes her other supplies between Ragnor, Felicia
and Leia, who assure her that the extra weight is no burden.  She offers her
herbs to Alicia and potions to Leia as a gift of thanks.  They accept.

Leia burns the club for light after the oil runs out in Jhere's lantern.  Then
we add another flask after the club burns out.

After supper there is a near altercation between Elured and Crys.  We ignore
it, too tired to get involved, and it sputters out.  During the middle watch,
Elured and Jhere, Elured spots something(s) flying near the roof, out of clear
sight.  He prods Leia awake with his boot and shouts to alert the rest of us.
Whatever it is, it flies away.  The remainder of the night passes without
incident.

After lunch, Kidd seems ready to travel, but Todd still shows no vital signs.
Leia assures us he will recover.

We try to decide which is the shortest way to go.  Leia concentrates, then
points left, then right, then left.  Alicia concentrates and asks Mielikki
if going left is the shortest way to the Axe of the Dwarven Lords.  She gets
a "no", so she says we should go right.  Kidd says wait a few minutes and he
see if he can figure out the correct answer.  After fifteen minutes he tells
us our choices:
	1)	The way to the right grows very narrow and twisty, he dropped
	his pack to get through.  No other problems, though, and it does
	eventually widen.
	2)	The way to the left ends in a 5-10' hole with a solid floor
	about 60' feet below.  He didn't investigate the bottom further.
	3)	There is a branch corridor off the left choice that ends in
	a large cavern with a 30-40' hole dropping 20' to a solid bottom
	There are animal droppings (bats?) in the cavern.  After jumping down
	the hole and starting to investigate, he thinks he discovered
	something deadly.
Leia tries to locate the great axe directly and succeeds!  She announces that
it's through the wall of the corridor and down at about a thirty degree angle.
She's a bit perplexed because she's sure she should know how far away it is,
but can't tell, as though something were interfering with her spell!  We elect
to go right.

Crys shrinks Todd to less than half his normal size when we reach the narrow
spot, that makes him a lot easier for Felicia to handle.  She also lights
various objects and people so we have adequate light to see where we're going.
Eventually, we all make it through, though it takes us a half hour or so.

The passage widens gradually to thirty feet, before beginning to narrow again.
When the passage is only ten feet wide, Alicia suddenly warns us that around
eleven creatures are slithering toward us from the direction we're headed!

Jhere leans her staff (still lit by Crys's spell) and readies her bow.
Felicia sets (little) Todd against the wall and strings hers.  Crys and
Leia murmur quietly.  Jhere goes down on one knee so that Felicia can
shoot over her.  Leia's holy symbol comes alight.

Finally the onslaught begins - a creature with a man's torso and a long
serpentine body slithers around the corner brandishing a two-handed sword!
Jhere shoots it with an arrow.  It slashes Ragnor's side before being
crushed beneath his magic maul.  Crys produces a cloud of potent static
electricity just around the corner and warns us to stay back.  Several of
the creatures are caught within it.

Jhere and Felicia shoot at the one that they can see.  After a few rounds,
it dies.  Crys steps up to the corner and fires a cold ball from her staff.
Then she realizes that one of them is a dear friend.  She steps back, not
willing to risk hurting her friend and asks why the rest of us don't talk
before we shoot!

Kidd and Jhere move up to the corner.  Kidd is struck by one that closes
immediately, but manages to strike back with a fire bolt from his staff.
Jhere starts to shoot at another that closes with her, but Crys pushes her
and causes her to lose her grip on the arrow, so she cannot fire.  She takes
a minor wound in the left side.  Jhere falls to the ground, feigning a mortal
wound.  Leia blasts her assailant with a bolt of fire from her holy symbol.
Felicia feathers it with an arrow.

The floor beneath one of the fallen creatures glows cherry red.  We can feel
the heat even standing near the corner.  The smell of roasting flesh drifts
our way.  Jhere enjoys the warmth.

Crys recognizes that Kidd's opponent is not her friend and blasts it with a
water bolt from her palm.  It retreats as does Jhere's foe as Jhere rolls to
her knees and fires a parting shot.  Felicia tries to tackle Crys, but she
is instead thrown to the ground!  Jhere tells Crys that she should go tell
her friend that we won't hurt them if they won't hurt us.  Crys says sure
and starts digging for a potion in her pack.  Ragnor moves up to the corner
and is rewarded by being struck with a sling bullet that cracks a rib!

Leia unleashes a fireball and catches several of the creatures within its
blast.  Kidd stares intently at Crys and she drops into a deep slumber.  We
wait, poised for the next attack.  Kidd tries to detect any minds within his
range.  He says they seem to have gone!  Alicia cannot locate them either.

She boils a crushed fek nut and gives the infusion to Ragnor to drink.  His
bleeding stops immediately.  Kidd gives his last two abaas leaves to Alicia.
She burns those and one she had been previously given within her censer as
Felicia, Jhere, Kidd and Ragnor gather close.  They're wounds are healed,
save for Ragnor, who still sufers from minor bruises and a cracked rib.

Though Kidd concentrates for several minutes, he reports that he cannot find
the serpent-men anywhere.
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Mon Aug  6 11:20:31 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: Re: The Quest for Axe of the Dwarven Lords (4)
Keywords: story
Date: 3 Aug 90 21:37:47 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


	WE AVOID THE STAMPEDE
	WE NEARLY LOSE JHERE TO THE NIGHT HOUNDS
	ALICIA FLIES CIRCLES AROUND A DRAGON
	WE MEET TWO NATIVES OF THE CAVERN
	WE REGAIN A COMRADE AND GATHER SOME TREASURE
	WE MEET A BAKER'S DOZEN MANTICORES & NEGOTIATE PASSAGE AS USUAL


It is mid-afternoon on the 20th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in the catacombs...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

Alicia reads a scroll, Ragnor's rib starts to mend.  Elured goes to search
the dead bodies and finds only one!  Aside from a few small coins, the only
thing of any value is the iron two-handed sword.  Kidd assures him that it
has no magical properties, but Elured prevails upon Alicia to check as well.
She, too, claims that it does not contain magic.  Elured throws it aside in
disgust and starts hacking and kicking the dead serpent-thing (upon death it
transformed into a serpent).  We back away.

When Elured calms down and approaches us, Crys decides he needs to be cleaned
up a bit and hurls a water bolt at him!  Elured is not fazed a bit.

We eat supper and camp for the night.  It passes uneventfully.  Kidd has a
dream about a small, stout man wielding a mighty axe.  Ogres are slain with
a single blow.  The axe glowing as it strikes.  There is a great battle going
on.  This small, stout man (Kidd is later told that he must be a dwarf) is in
the middle of it.  The ogres try to stay clear of him.  The dream ends with
the battle still continuing.

We breakfast, then carefully round the corner.  We continue until a passage
joins from behind.  Kidd concentrates for a bit and tells us that dangerous
giant humanoids await us in that direction.  Leia again indicates that the
axe lies downward and through the wall, an undetermined distance away.

We decide to continue straight ahead.  As Jhere passes a narrow point, the
floor of the passage starts to get warm and glow red!  We panic and try to
run across the area before it gets to hot.  Kidd falls and slightly bruises
his hip.  He discovers that it's not getting that hot after all.

We come to another place where the corridor divides into four passages.  Leia
again seeks the Axe and points down one of the openings, but downwards through
the floor.  Alicia prays to Mielikki for guidance and says that's the way we
should go.

The passage slowly curves to the right, until we're headed the opposite way
>from when we entered it.  Alicia suddenly cries out that uncountable beasts
are running straight towards us!  But they come so quickly that we don't have
time to react.  They are jackalopes.  Obviously running in fear, they don't
seem to notice us as we press against the walls and try to climb clear.  Jhere
fends their antlers away with her quarterstaff.  Before we can climb, most of
us a struck by the racing beasts - Leia has a leg broken and cartilege in her
knee torn, the rest take only slight wounds.  After a few minutes, the herd
passes.  For some reason, they seem to have steered clear of Alicia.

Alicia prepares a fek nut for Felicia, who's bleeding slightly.  Leia drinks
a potion from her pack to heal the leg and one given to her by Kidd for her
knee.  The leg will still hamper her for about a day, until it fully recovers.

Kidd cannot locate any sentient creatures within his range, so we continue.
After a bit, Alicia warns that several creatures await us.  We close to
about forty feet, then Kidd concentrates and tells us that things waiting
for us are night hounds!

Jhere lays her staff down and strings her bow.  Crys releases a 'cold ball'
>from her staff, the explosion sends a noticible breeze past us.  Moments
later, the night hounds discover our whereabouts and run, slavering toward
us.  The onslaught leaves Jhere paralyzed from the neck down, Ragnor dazed,
and several of us in comas ranging from a few moments to several hours.

But despite the ferocity of their attack, Crys triggered a static electric
storm in their midst and Leia, her holy symbol aglow, created a rain of
fire balls.  Ragnor managed to almost crush to death the nearest to him and
Elured, aided by Crys and Leia's magic, finishes off that one and another
within the reach of his mighty sword.  When Ragnor recovers, he manages to
trip over an imaginary unseen deceased turtle and doesn't regain control of
his marvelous maul until the battle is all but over.  Leia lets the fire
continue until the beasts are reduced to little more than charred cinders.

Alicia plucks a flower from her wreath, now only nine remain, and it becomes
a small amount of purple lichen - wifurwif!  She murmurs a blessing over it
and burns it within her censer.  The vapors heal Jhere's spine.  Next she
burns a klandun leaf, and Jhere feels the paralysis lift.

At Elured's behest, Alicia attempts to discover if there is any magic in the
area occupied by the slain night hounds.  All she can sense is Leia's power.

We eat and camp for the night.  Ragnor cannot travel for a day - the spell
Alicia used to stop his bleeding is a weak one, easily broken.  Crys places
an alarm forty feet to either side of our camp, if anything moves through
those areas, a bright light will illuminate it.  The night passes quietly.

We break fast.  Kidd goes into repeated trances, attempting to locate the
correct path, for where the night hounds had stood when we first sensed them,
the passage offers four alternatives.  And those alternatives branch more
times!  After nearly a half an hour of mental seeking, Kidd presents the
choices that lay before us.  Alicia asks Mielikki's guidance.  We choose to
follow the second corridor to the left, which ends abruptly in a 20' deep pit.

When we reach the pit, Jhere examines it carefully, then announces that there
are closely spaced hand and foot holds on the near wall!  We begin to discuss
who should go first.

We climb down into the pit.  When we reach the bottom, the only wall
illuminated by our torches is the one we climbed.  Alicia warns us of
ten large creatures about 150' away in one direction and five medium
creatures over 200' away in another.  As they don't seem to be aware
of us, we ignore them for the moment.  She tosses an acorn to try to
discover how far it is to the opposite wall, but can't tell.

Leia tries to determine which way we should go.  All ways (left along
the wall, right along the wall and straight away from the wall) seem
equally good to her.  Concentrating, she finds that the five things that
await us to the right can kill her, before she can see them, using some
kind of cold-based attack.  Going straight out from the wall brings her
to water, but she can't tell how far it is to the other side.

Alicia warns everyone to stand back and then transforms herself into a
thyfur!  Crystine gestures and makes an incantation and light springs
forth from one of Alicia's talons, illuminating a 50' radius.  She takes
Crys on her back and Todd's body in her talons and flies slowly toward
the water.  On the far side of the underground lake, where a stream flows
>from it, Alicia and Crys disturb a group of large bats.  They flutter
around until Alicia lands, dropping Todd and letting Crys dismount.  She
then flies shuttle service for the rest of us, except Jhere, who chooses
to walk across the lake instead!

After we are all together, Alicia flies downstream, tracing the stream.
Suddenly, she sees a 40' cave drake running towards her.  She whirls away
and heads back toward us.  The dragon gains on her, hampered by the low
ceiling (under 30') and stalactites, Alicia cannot fly too quickly without
risking injury.  She is forced to turn and parry the dragon's attack.

Her loud cries attract our attention, though her light does not illuminate
us, we can see the two adversaries in its glow.  We charge to her aid.
Between Ragnor's maul, Crys' cold ball from her staff, Leia's fire-based
attacks from her holy symbol, Felicia and Jhere's arrows, Alicia's slashing
claws, and Elured's sword, we prove too much for it.  But not before Elured
lays dying from acid in his lungs!

Alicia lands and returns to her normal form.  She burns an herb within her
censer which heals Elured's lungs and allows his own recuperative powers
to bring him back to conciousness and, finally after a couple of hours, to
full health.  A beam from Leia's holy symbol carresses Todd's remains; she
announces that his soul will continue to abide within it for another eleven
days and prays his heart will have regenerated by then.

Meanwhile, Felicia leaps across the water and tries to recover her arrows
>from the dragon's corpse.  She only manages to retrieve one arrow; it's
Jhere's.  Returning, she tries to leap the stream again, but manages to
splash into it midway across instead.  She swims back to us, chilled from
the water and the cool air.

Alicia detects two large creatures on our side of the stream, almost 300'
away.  They don't seem to have noticed the battle or us ... yet.

We eat lunch.  Alicia monitors the two creatures - they eventually wander
out of her range.  After lunch we follow along the stream; Alicia warns
that the creatures are dead ahead.  When we close to about 100', we decide
to cross the river and avoid them.  We backtrack several feet to a point
where the stream banks are only about 10' apart.

Alicia walks across on the water's surface, ferrying our supplies.  After
Felicia jumps across, Ragnor rests the head of his maul on the near bank
and tilts the handle across until she can reach and balance it.  He then
tries to jump across, but comes up a few feet short with a good splash.  He
swims the rest of the way.  Elured also fails to clear the water, swimming
the remaining distance awkwardly due to his injured shoulder.  Leia strips
off all of her clothing before making the attempt, bundling it for Alicia to
carry.  She easily lands on the far side, but has to put up with Elured and
Ragnor ogling her until Alicia reaches her with her garments.  Crystine,
Jhere and Kidd also jump across without difficulty and Ragnor reels Todd's
body over with a rope that he secured under Todd's shoulders before
crossing.  As we get organized, Alicia informs us that the two creatures
have crossed as well, although they still have not come nearer to us.

Kidd takes the torch and concentrates for a bit.  He tells us that they are
granite-faced, hostile, humanoid creatures of about 12' in height.

Crys asks if they seem to be actually made of stone and Kidd replies
affirmatively.  She then says that she can get rid of one if someone can get
rid of the other.  Ragnor says he'll do it.  Crys takes the torch and
advances with Ragnor next to her and the rest of us in support, except
Elured, who mumbles something about his tendon not being healed yet and that
he'll stay with Todd's body.

When Crys and Ragnor are about 30' from the creatures, they move towards us.
Whatever magic Crys tries, failed.  We see her reach out to touch the cave
troll (for that's what they are) nearest her, then in the wink of an eye, she
is 20' away and the torch she had carried is wedged at its feet.  Ragnor is
even less successful:  his opponent strikes before he can, fracturing his
left shoulder, and when he finally recovers enough to swing back, he pulls
his groin swinging the massive maul.  Leia blasts one with three bolts of
fire from her holy symbol before it hurls a rock at her, breaking her right
hip and knocking her to the ground.  Kidd also attacks them with fire bolts,
using his staff.  Meanwhile, Felicia and Jhere circle behind the creatures
and start shooting arrows at them, while Alicia shoots from one side.  Crys
digs through her pack and pulls out the false god's "death ray".  She uses it
to make the one attacking Leia vanish just before it can finish her off.
Felicia is very upset when her bow breaks and she grabs her battle axe and
runs up to the remaining one.  She cleaves it nearly in two with a mighty
swing, ending the battle.

We do not have anything with which we can heal Ragnor's and Leia's fractures,
but Alicia plucks a flower from her wreath and it transforms into a stalk of
gursamel.  She mutters a spell over it to make it produce instant results,
then burns it in her censer so that Leia and Ragnor may inhale the vapors.
Leia's holy symbol glows brighter and she lays her hands on Ragnor's groin,
healing the pulled muscles (and putting a grin on his face).

Elured saunters up to the lifeless troll and begins looting the body.  He
announces that there are lots of bronze pieces, if anybody wants any.
Unfortunately, Felicia saw the glitter of gold and a flicker of blue in the
things he had pocketed.  He eventually admits to having gold pieces and a
large sapphire (which Crystine examines and tells him is worth about 20gp).
We divide up the gold pieces, Elured and others give gold pieces to Leia to
sacrifice to Brigit.

Most of us gather around Leia as she gives a prayer of thanks to Brigit and
again asks for Todd's speedy recovery.  Alicia prays to Meilikki a short
distance away.  Suddenly, the pile of coins erupts into brilliant orange
flame.  As the fire fades, it seems tinged with green.  The coins are gone.
Elured offers the sapphire to Leia to sacrifice and she intones other
prayers.  After several minutes, it too blazes with a brilliant orange fire
and is consumed.

Alicia joins the circle and burns an enhanced rewk nodule in her censer.  We
have the impression that Todd looks "better" and ask Leia about it.  She says
no, but Elured says yes.  Alicia burns a clove of thurl in her censer and
Todd's eyelids flutter.  It's a while before he can sit up and longer before
he can walk unassisted.  When Elured relates our adventures, Todd is
surprised that we didn't seek the dragon's lair.

We decide to camp by the river and seek it in the morning.  Jhere persuades
Leia to heat a rock to serve as a stove.  It also warms the air nearby and,
after supper, Jhere curls up and sleeps comfortably for the first time since
entering the caves.

In the morning, after Crys eats, she makes a waterwall.  Alicia, Crys, Elured
and Jhere refill their canteens.  Jhere concentrates for a bit and then
indicates that there are three nearby paths, two ahead of us that branch
confusingly and one behind us that leads to a city.  We return to the slain
dragon so she can pick up its tracks.  Other than being slightly
inconvenienced by backtracking across the stream, Jhere has no major problem
in tracing the tracks back to its lair, a substantial depression in the floor
of the cavern.

Kidd takes the torch, concentrates, and states that there is a huge pile of
coins within.  Ragnor stands guard as the rest of us go in.  Sorting through
the hoard we come up with some gold, some silver, vast amounts of copper, a
rod, and a wallet containing oddly shaped metal tools.  Alicia tells us that
the rod and wallet are imbued with essence.  Crys takes the rod (she
discovers that each charge functions as a three times essence multiplier).
Todd takes the wallet, assuring us that he can use its contents.

Leaving the lair, Leia tries to guess which path we should choose.  She
suggests either of the two closer ones.  We find a narrow portion of the
stream and jump across, having decided to try the passage to our right.

We enter a tunnel that narrows rapidly to 5' wide before slowly widening and
curving to the left.  We halt at an abrupt drop.  We can't see the far side.
We can hear water that we estimate to be 100' below the edge on which we
stand.  We decide to try the other path and retrace our steps.

When we near the second tunnel, Alicia warns us that 13 large creatures wait
inside.  Kidd determines that they are less than friendly.  We prepare for
battle.

Kidd detects a dozen intelligences inside the tunnel we intend to use as an
exit from the great cavern.  We prepare to fight our way through.  Jhere,
Alicia, Elured and Leia (with her holy symbol aglow) cross to the far side of
the opening.  That proves to be a mistake - whatever the creatures are, they
can see in the dark - darts rain upon the four.  Alicia and Jhere are at
death's door; muscles in Elured's left arm are severed and he cannot wield
his great sword.  Jhere clamps the wound in her forearm with her other hand
in an attempt to control the blood loss.

Crys releases a charge from her new rod, tripling her available spell points.
Felicia is clawed by one as it emerges from the tunnel, but a blow from her
battle axe tears into its abdomen, more than repaying it.  Ragnor slings one
of the exploding pebbles into the tunnel, after leaning his maul against the
cavern wall.  Besides the creatures, the blast catches Felicia.  Leia fires
three bolts of flame with her holy symbol.  Hit by two darts, Ragnor is
blinded and knocked to the ground in a coma that will last for two days.
Crys attempts to double Felicia's rate of action, but for some reason casts
the spell on Todd instead.  Leia hurls a fireball into the tunnel - now
things are getting hot for the manticores (the illumination of the fire
spells has allowed us a look at them).  Alicia falls unconscious from blood
loss and Elured tries to work his way over to her.

Crys uses some of her "saved time" to act against the manticores before they
can do more damage.  She creates an illusion of a wall across the opening,
leaps in front of the opening and fires a cold ball from her staff into their
midst.  She notices that she seems to be a little confused and indecisive as
she fires a second cold ball, leaps away, then back.  She follows with two
fire balls and another cold ball before leaping away again.  She cancels her
illusion and illuminates her hand with a light spell.

Leia feels the might of Brigit's hand as suddenly she seems able to move
twice as fast and feels as though she has the strength of a giant.  She draws
her broad sword and runs howling into the tunnel.  Inspired, Felicia and Todd
and Crys follow.

Jhere grows slowly weaker and suddenly collapses with a stroke as Elured
reaches Alicia.  Elured administers a potion of healing to Alicia.  She casts
a spell which causes her bleeding to stop.  Then she tries to go to Ragnor's
aid, but the wound re-opens and she collapses before she can reach him.
Elured places a mirenna berry in her mouth.  She again regains consciousness
and stops the bleeding.  She tries to use a flower from her wreath to heal
Ragnor, but it withers rather than becoming a useful herb.

Kidd gives one of the manticores a shock, then follows up with a fire bolt
>from his staff (doing some damage, for once).

Leia, with a little help from Todd, quickly dispatches one manticore while
Felicia finishes off another.  They advance deeper into the tunnel.  The
creatures have been dazed by the elemental spells hurled earlier by Crys and
Leia.  Unfortunately, as Leia and Felicia start to attack the next two beasts
they discover that not all are incapable of action.  Darts strike Felicia in
the chest and Leia in the arm.  Leia staggers, nearly blacking out from blood
loss before suddenly being healed by Brigit.  Kidd blurs the vision of
Felicia's adversary.  Leia and Todd finish off the one facing them.  Leia
uses her holy symbol to create a rain of fire deeper in the passage.  The one
that attacked them has vanished.  Soon, the remaining ones are finished off
between Felicia, Leia and Todd, with magical assistance from Crys and Kidd.

As the rain of fire reduces the last few to ash, we are healed of our cuts
and bruises by the power of Brigit, channeled through her servant, Leia.
Ragnor, however, still lays in a coma and Jhere suffers from the damage
caused by her stroke.  Alicia burns aliantha in her censer.  It neutralizes
the poison contained in the darts (although only Jhere seemed to be
affected), cures any diseases we might be fighting and provides us with four
weeks' nutrition.  Jhere feels that her condition is somewhat improved,
though her strength and motor coordination still have a long way to go.

Crys asks Leia if the rod is cursed; Leia concentrates and reports that she
doesn't detect any.  Elured searches the remains and pockets 7 silver pieces
and 10 copper pieces.  Trying to extract a poisoned dart from the tail of
one, he gets it stuck in his hand.  Fortunately, Crys gives him a potion that
neutralizes poisons and he suffers no ill effects.  He gives up trying to get
some of the poison.  Todd examines Crys' rod and is able to tell her that it
was forged in a cavern not to far from here.

Leia leads a prolonged, intense prayer session on Ragnor's behalf.  After
about thirty minutes, a glowing pavilion appears.  Leia enters Brigit's
domain and receives her blessing.  She asks for help for Ragnor.  No reply
seems forthcoming, so she thanks Brigit and leaves, intending to have him
carried within.  Before we can pick him up, the pavilion fades.

Leia attempts to get the direction of the Axe of the Dwarven Lords, but
fails.  Kidd mentally explores the tunnel ahead.  The center path comes to a
dead end.  The right path must have some kind of trap, he expects we will be
buried under fallen rock and dirt.  The left path forks, and a swarm of bats
prevents his full exploration.
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Tue Aug  7 09:50:14 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: Re: The Quest for Axe of the Dwarven Lords (5)
Keywords: story
Date: 6 Aug 90 15:26:18 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


	WE DECIDE THAT DISCRETION IS THE BETTER PART OF VALOR
	TODD OPENS A DOOR & KIDD LOOKS INSIDE
	LEIA & JHERE SHED SOME LIGHT
	ALICIA MEETS A CAT; JHERE TURNS ON A FOUNTAIN
	TODD & ELURED MAKE A RUN FOR IT

It is early morning on the 23rd day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in a great cavern ...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)


Jhere discards her food and water as an un-necessary burden thanks to the
aliantha.  We rest near the tunnel opening, hoping for Ragnor's speedy
recovery.

We notice a bat flying out of the tunnel, but pay it no heed.  We switch to
a lantern as the torch burns out.  Several hours have passed, enough so that
it's probably dusk outside.  It's quiet.  Too quiet....

Alicia senses 10 creatures coming towards us from across the cavern.  We
douse the lantern and follow along the cavern wall away from the tunnel.
Alicia turns into a thyfur, but in the dark cannot see to fly or land!  Leia
prays, igniting her holy symbol.  The creatures pass us by.  Alicia uses
Leia's holy symbol as a guide and doesn't land too badly.  Todd creeps
blindly along the wall to the opening.  He doesn't find the creatures.

Suddenly something grabs Jhere.  She feints fainting (still not strong enough
to fight).  It turns out to be Todd.

We stay put for two uneventful nights.  Todd and Kidd try to dream about the
axe - Kidd dreams of perishing in a landslide and Todd has a bizarre dream of
being swallowed by a fire-breathing dragon.  Kidd tries to find a way through
the tunnel, but keeps sensing fierce foes blocking the path. 

Jhere's condition gradually improves and Ragnor recovers from his coma.  Crys
is still suffering from having overextended herself and cannot cast spells.
We decide to go on anyway.

We penetrate about a hundred feet into the tunnel before stopping, sure that
creatures lie in wait ahead.

Alicia uses one of Crystine's invisibility potions and casts a spell granting
the ability to speak with animals.  She tries unsuccessfully to persuade the
bats that we are their friends, and that the should help us against the other
creatures.

Kidd gives Ragnor a potion that will hopefully restore his vision, but no
immediate improvement is noted.  Leia steps around the curve of the corridor
and changes into her ceremonial gown.  She returns to the party and leads
most of us in a prayer to Brigit for guidance, safety and deliverance.  The
men are especially attentive.  Her gown is of fiery orange silk, embroidered
with gold flames.  It has long bat-wing sleeves, a high collar, a short train
and is slit down to the navel in front.  Her glowing holy symbol focuses much
attention on that slit.  Despite the impressive service, no guidance is
received.  While she changes back to her traveling clothes, Alicia offers a
prayer to Mielikki, with no more success.  After a heated debate, we decide
to try another way in - a few of us are in favor of giving up the quest
completely!

Alicia plucks a flower from her wreath, it transforms into grayish root -
baldakur.  She murmurs a blessing over it then prepares a cup of broth from
it which she gives to Ragnor to drink.  A moment later, he blinks.  His
vision is restored.  He thanks Alicia.

Jhere guides us toward the remaining path into what we hope is the dwarven
city.  About a hundred feet from the tunnel Alicia warns us that eight large
creatures await us at the limit of her range.  Jhere confirms that that is
where the path we seek lays.

Despite Crys' exhausted state (she still cannot cast spells), she advances
to within 50 feet of the creatures, readying her staff of cold balls.  Leia
prays, causing her holy symbol to glow and advances to about 100 feet from
the creatures, flanked by Kidd and Felicia.  Alicia transforms into a thyfur.
Jhere retreats back to the tunnel entrance.  The creatures argue loudly among
themselves, and don't seem to notice us.  Too bad.  Crys' cold ball and
Leia's fire ball alert them to our presence, as well as weakening them a
bit.  We catch sight of huge doors beyond them.  Leia blocks that path with a
wall of flames.  Kidd concentrates his attention on first one, then another
of the foul monsters.  Leia's fire spells illuminate the creatures enough so
that we can identify them as ogres.  Crys and Leia continue to alternate cold
and fire spells for a few moments as Todd circles behind them and Ragnor and
Elured close.  Felicia misses with an arrow and switches to her battle axe.
Ragnor's mighty maul makes mincemeat of the monsters as Todd gets in some
deadly dagger attacks from behind and Elured and Felicia slice them with their
blades.  Alicia (in thyfur-form) strikes at them with her claws.  Soon they
all lay dead.  The only injuries we've taken are when Alicia intercepted a
fire bolt intended for one of the ogres (crippling her right wing) and
Felicia fended off a flail with her head (losing her left ear).

As the battle with the ogres subsides, Jhere notices sounds echoing from the
tunnel behind her:  beastly growls and snarls, rocks crashing into walls and
smacking into flesh, the soft "zing" of smaller missiles, the crunch of teeth
and weapons against bone and gristle.  With a furious flapping of wings, ten
or twenty bats suddenly emerge from the opening.  A few minutes later, the
sounds grow less frequent, then cease, save for the occasional crunch of
teeth on bone....

Alicia pulls a flower from her wreath, praying for something to heal her
burns.  The flower transforms into yellowish grass - alambas - over which
she murmurs a spell.  Twice.  At her request, Crys finds the brass pot in
Alicia's pack, fills it with water and heats it with a torch.

Crys gives Felicia a potion of minor vessel repair, which stops her bleeding.
Leia's holy symbol illuminates Felicia's head, where her ear had been, and
Brigit channels an ear regeneration spell through Leia.  No immediate result
is apparent.

Alicia boils the alambas in the pot.  After it cools, she applies it to her
burns - they heal instantly.

Meanwhile, Jhere returns from the tunnel entrance and tells us what she
heard.  She insists that there's no chance that we can get through that way.

Kidd concentrates on the doors facing us and says that there doesn't seem to
be anyone on the other side.  Todd concentrates and reports that he can't
find any reason not to open the doors.  So we try.  The doors are each 15'
square with elaborate carvings.  Several party members recognize that the
symbols are dwarven writing, but Crys can only make out the words "friend"
and "home" and can't understand anything else.  No one else can read dwarven
at all.  What we take to be hinges at the outer edges suggests that the
doors swing outward but, after fruitlessly pulling and pushing on the doors
for several minutes, we tell Ragnor to try to smash them with his maul.

He gives several mighty swings - the maul bounces off without so much as
chipping or marring the surface!  He tries the stone adjacent to the door,
but the maul refuses to let him swing!  Crys tells everyone to stand clear
and aims the rod of the false gods at the doors, using the highest setting.
Nothing seems to happen!  She quietly puts it away.

Crys suggests that we search the lower portion of the door again as dwarves
aren't very tall.  We do and Todd discovers a hemispherical decoration about
18" in diameter that moves inward when he pushes on it.  He pushes it all the
way in - nothing happens.  Ragnor locates the matching decoration on the
other door and pushes it in.  Everyone else has backed well away, but nothing
happens.  Todd and Ragnor push them simultaneously, with no result.  Todd
says to try first one then the other, so he pushes his in again and releases
it.  As Ragnor starts to push his in, the door in front of Todd swings
silently open.  Todd gets out of the way.  When Ragnor releases his, the door
before him also opens.  We are very impressed with the engineering.  The
doors open soundlessly, though they are 4' thick and apparently haven't been
opened in years.  A thick, undisturbed layer of dust covers the floor inside.

The air has a stale smell to it.  Todd steps a short ways inside and reports
that the inside walls are smooth and without decoration, other than the
mineral grain of the rock.  He decides to come back out.  Kidd seeks inward
with his mind.  He discovers regular passageways, massive doors and that the
way to the right is blocked in all halls by rubble from some ancient
upheaval.  As he finishes he mental exploration, the doors swing closed.
About ten minutes have passed since we got them open.

Alicia and Ragnor are elected to stay outside while we explore.  They open
the doors.  Leia concentrates, attempting to find the direction to the "Axe
of the Dwarven Lords".  She does not locate it.  Simultaneously, Kidd tries
to mentally examine the rooms beyond the doors he'd noticed in his earlier
mental probe of the ruins.  He finds gems and weapons and varying degrees
of discomfort in the four large chambers that lie beyond the first four
pairs of doors.

Kidd leads us to the room he feels we should explore first.  Unnoticed,
Todd slips away to try his luck in one of the rooms from which Kidd has
told us to stay away.  Jhere, Kidd and Leia wait outside as Crys, Elured
and Felicia enter the room.  They discover that inserting their torch into
a hole at the corner of the entrance causes a large section of the wall to
glow, illuminating perhaps a sixth of the total room.  Crys finds a large
golden crystal and a huge purple one and puts them in her pouch.  Felicia
finds two reddish-brown stones and keeps them.  Elured gets more and more
frustrated at everyone finding things before he does.  Felicia hears a
rasping or scraping noise as we search ...

Jhere and Kidd position themselves behind the door, ready to slam it shut.
Leia prays, igniting her holy symbol.  Jhere hands her torch to Kidd, so
she can conserve her strength and concentration for the door.  She feels
warmth radiating against her chest.  Reluctantly, she pulls out her holy
symbol ...

The group inside the room has inserted the torch into a different slot.
The illumination reaches a stagnant fountain.  Eight large creatures, with
humanoid torsos, serpentine tails and wings, are draped on and around it.
Their eyes stare balefully in our direction.  Felcia has just picked up a
huge blue cystal; she quickly inserts it into her pouch and begins to
retreat from the room.  Elured drops his pack and reaches for his sword.
Crys sees an extraordinarily handsome man, dressed in black, near the back
wall of the room.  He gestures, smiles at her, and starts to walk toward
her.  We all notice an irregular rasping noise as something approaches
>from the dark side of the room.  Crys yanks out the torch.

Elured yells at her to put it back (we can't see them, but they can
probably still see us).  She does.  The man has vanished, but a cloud of
vapor floats rapidly toward the group from where he had been.  Felicia,
Elured and Crys try to run for the door as Leia steps through it.  Calling
on her sacred power she attempts to repel the cloud of vapor, seeing it
for what it is - an undead - a vampire!  The cloud envelopes Crys for a
moment as Felicia and Elured make their escape.  Then Crys gets out of the
room, too, as the vampire hastily retreats as far as it can from Leia.

Jhere joins her in the doorway.  Not just Leia's holy symbol is alight,
she herself radiates a reddish glow.  Another image, that of a fiery red
woman seems superimposed over her own figure.  Kidd notices the same
phenomenon with Jhere, except that the second figure is blue instead of
red.  Almost shoulder to shoulder, the glowing figures step into the room,
Jhere futilely fighting the compulsion that moves her.  Now they can see
a row of zombies marching forward from the rear, just barely illuminated
by the glowing wall.  A blast from Leia's holy symbol disolves them.
A similar blast from Jhere's holy symbol briefly illuminates two stunning
women in the darkest part of the room as one of them vanishes and the
other begins to change shape.

Leia paces toward the left side of the room, followed closely by Felicia
and Elured as Jhere heads toward the right (unlit) side.  Jhere's aura
casts sufficient light that she can easily walk without danger of tripping.
Leia blasts a second row of zombies, they turn about and collide with the
row behind them.  A blue beam from Jhere's pedant causes the dissolution
of a bat.  The glowing figures penetrate deeper into the chamber.

A red beam from Leia's holy symbol destroys four zombies as a blue beam
>from Jhere's does likewise.  Jhere murmurs a prayer of protection to Freya
and again tries to fight the compulsion that ties her to this battle - to
no avail.

Beams from their holy symbols dissolve the vampire that previously had run
>from Leia and the last zombies as Elured scoops up the pack he'd dropped
and a nice-looking steel two-handed sword and a copper and silver arm band
>from a nearby forge.  They once again notice the creatures around the
fountain - still watching, waiting ...

The compulsion that held Jhere passes, but the blue Lady aura is still
about her.  Thinking that she'd like to see the fountain in operation, she
notices a wheel near the base on her side ...

While we fight the undead, Todd reaches the door of a room that Kidd had
warned us to stay away.  He hesitates with his hand on the door handle.  He
steps back and concentrates, seeking inside with his mind.  He finds gems
and weapons lying about, but nothing that seems threatening ... still, he
remains uncomfortable about entering alone.  He wavers for several minutes
before finally going back to get his good friend, Elured.

			*	*	*

Meanwhile, Alicia suddenly feels something soft rubbing against her legs.
Startled, she jumps away - how did it get to her without her being warned
by her censer?  A black cat, with eyes like glowing blue sapphires, meows
plaintively at her and moves in to rub against her again.  Alicia prays for
communication with the animal and begins to talk in its tongue.  It wants
her to scratch it.  She does for a bit, as tries to get it to answer her
questions.  It proves most uncooperative, but purrs contently when ever she
scratches.  It swipes at her holy symbol, playing with it while she holds
it in her arms.  Alicia grows angry and tosses the cat away from her, only
to discover that it somehow takes her holy symbol!  She makes threats at it
and tries to invoke Mielikki's power ... to no avail.  Eventually, a rather
amused Ragnor calls, "Here kitty, kitty, kitty."  And hears a "meow" in
reply.  Alicia takes up the call and the cat is suddenly back at her legs.
She picks it up and her holy symbol returns.  She asks its name.  It says,
"Kkatttt ... eri."

			*	*	*

Todd beckons to Elured from the door.  Elured sheaths his old sword and
carries his newly acquired one ready in his hands.  Todd urges Elured to
come with him and plunder another room.  They slip away unnoticed.

			*	*	*

Jhere heads for the valve that might control the fountain.  The geryons
(the humanoid-torso'd serpent-bodied winged creatures within) prepare to
greet her, weapons at the ready.  Crys grabs the rod of the false gods from
her pack and asks Felicia if she can borrow hers as well.  Kidd readies his
staff of fire bolts.  The glows about Leia and Jhere are slowly diffusing,
no longer giving the appearance of a double image.  Felicia draws her bow
and we attack the geryons.  The battle holds a few surprises:  Jhere is
quite effective, despite the aftereffects of her stroke; Crys casts no
spells, but instead blasts away with the two rods; only Crys takes any
injury - the creatures attacking Leia and Jhere seem unable to harm them.
Soon the geryons are all slain.

Jhere runs to the wheel and tries to turn it one way, then the other.  The
second choice is successful and she opens the valve fully.  The fountain
jets form a hauntingly beautiful abstract sculpture as the glow about Leia
finally dims out and the one around Jhere blazes intensely before vanishing
as well.  Slowly the stagnant water and blood are drained from the fountain
and the water runs clear.

Jhere persuades us to toss a donation to Freya into the fountain, joining
the coins that already line the bottom.  Jhere finds a tiara on a nearby
forge and tosses that within.  She seems to see the fountain light up,
brilliant blue, leaving her dazed with a beatific expression on her face.
Her quarterstaff is marked with new runes and she feels better than she has
since her manticore poison induced stroke.

Crys gathers gems and jewelry from the remaining portion of the room.  Some
of the gems, she is able to identify, others she is not.

			*	*	*

Meanwhile, Todd and Elured play a game of "after you" at the door of the
other room.  Finally, Elured opens the door.  He takes no more than a step
inside before spinning about and running blindly down the hall screaming at
the top of his lungs.  Todd closes the door.  Then drawn by the treasure
and the realization that nothing actually seemed to have harmed Elured, he
opens the door and cautiously pokes his head in.  Elured's cries haven't
fully faded in the distance before he joins in, following as fast as he is
able, leaving the door ajar behind him.  After bouncing blindly off
dead-end passages, they reach the entrance to ruins and pound screaming at
the massive doors, unheard by Ragnor and Alicia ...
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Thu Aug  9 08:16:26 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: Re: The Quest for the Axe of the Dwarven Lords (6)
Keywords: story
Date: 8 Aug 90 17:50:13 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


	ELURED AND TODD BUILD A BONFIRE
	ALICIA DISCOVERS THAT A CAT MIGHT HAVE 9 LIVES
	TODD SEES A GHOST & RAGNOR MAULS IT OVER
	JHERE AND FELICIA DISPOSE OF THE SPECTERS
	ALICIA HEALS THE WOUNDED
	ELURED OPENS A DOOR
	TODD LEADS US INTO DANGER, THEN EXITS
	TO THE VICTORS BELONG THE SPOILS

It is mid-morning on the 25th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in the dwarven ruins ...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

While Crys, Felicia, Jhere, Kidd and Leia discuss what to do next, the
creatures freed by Elured and Todd begin to wander the ruins, scenting
the life force of living beings.  First Todd, then Elured, recovers from
his fright.  The flesh at the back of Leia's neck crawls, then Jhere
tells everyone to be quiet, she thinks she hears something outside the
room.  Kidd goes to investigate, just in time to close the door, with
Felicia's help, barring a hoard of pallid, deformed undead, with terrible
fangs and cruel claws, from entering.  Leia and Jhere start to pray; soon
both of their holy symbols are aglow with power....

Elured heads back to where he dropped his sword, but encounters the roving
ghouls before he reaches it.  He turns about and runs back to Todd.  Side
by side, Todd with his dagger and Elured with his greatsword, they face
the onslaught of the undead.  Todd ignites the first to fall using his
torch.  They kick or throw additional bodies onto the pyre as the ghouls
fall to their prowess....

Alicia decides to determine if Kateri has a life essence and concentrates.
The cat does indeed ... and the power of its essence is so awesome that
Alicia is stunned for nearly two minutes!  Alicia and Ragnor decide that
enough time has passed and proceed to open the doors.  As the doors swing
open, Alicia sees the ghouls and yells out to Elured and Todd and they beat
a hasty retreat.  Kateri bounds out of sight as Alicia strings her bow and
Ragnor grabs his maul.  Soon more ghouls join the burning pile....

Crys begins a systematic search of the walls of the room, seeking another
exit....

Alicia retreats, moving behind Elured.  Unfortunately this creates an
opening for the ghouls, who begin to surround the small group.  Todd leaps
over them, back into the ruins, intending to run for help.  Instead,
something so frightens him that he runs the opposite direction, screaming.
Ragnor and Elured both go down under the fangs and claws of the undead;
Alicia prays fervently for help from Mielikki as the pyre gutters out.  In
the darkness, *something* strikes out at the remaining ghouls, as fearsome
to them as they are to the living.  They cower away from its fury....

Crys can find no other exit.  Kidd carefully pushes the door open with Jhere
pulling back on it.  Jhere yanks it closed, shuddering, when they find the
ghouls still waiting outside.  Crys decides to search the fountain.  Kidd
comes over to assist her.  After several moments concentration, he assures
her that the water is much too turbulent to permit their passage.  The group
decides to face the inevitable and takes up positions in a semi-circle
around the doorway....

Todd recovers from his fright and, steeling his nerves, starts back up the
corridor.  Opposite the entrance to the ruins his way is blocked by a ghost!
Todd attacks ineffectually with his dagger and soon lies unconscious, his
lifeblood trickling away....

Ragnor levers himself upright with his hammer.  He can just make out the
silhouette of ghoul cowering by the door.  A few moments later the ghoul
and the last of its cohorts lie crushed by blows from the maul.  Elured
slowly regains consciousness as Ragnor douses one of the bodies with oil and
carefully ignites it with a spark from his tinder box.  He pushes a couple
more of the corpses into the new pyre before he notices the ghost ... and
Todd's torch lying on the ground.  As he closes with the ghost, another
joins it!  But a mighty swing of his maul dispatches the first and nearly
the second as well!  Another undead, seeming little more than a tattered
cloak and glowing white orbs (a specter), hurls a lightning bolt at Ragnor,
then rapidly retreats, having been grievously injured by a blow from his
maul.  The ghost and specter attack Ragnor, stunned from the lightning bolt
he can only parry, but they do him no further damage.  As the ghost finally
fades out from the aftereffects of the blow that Ragnor struck earlier,
Ragnor recovers enough to step around the corner.  The specter follows,
careful to keep him in sight, but out of reach.  As the specter comes into
view, Alicia and Elured, who had been piling bodies onto the fire, scream
and run blindly into the center of the great cavern....

		CRYS PERFORMS A VANISHING ACT


It is mid-morning on the 25th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in the dwarven ruins ...)
	sky:		??
	wind:		0 mph (calm)


Elured and Alicia finally recover from their fright ... after splashing
through the stream that runs through the center of the great cavern.
Elured manages to get a torch lit and calls out for Alicia.  Alicia sets
out toward him, buts slips in a crevice and breaks her wrist, losing
consciousness from the pain.  Elured jogs in the direction he heard her
cry out....

Ragnor tosses the last of the ghoulish bodies into the fire, then starts
chasing the specter.  The specter keeps backing up to stay out of the reach
of Ragnor's maul, so it doesn't have time to aim its lightning bolts.  Todd
follows in Ragnor's wake, lighting their way with a torch.  Suddenly, Ragnor
is hit by a lightning bolt - the specter has been joined by another....

Jhere tries to cautiously push her door open using her quarterstaff, and
fails.  Felicia flings hers open, then runs in fear at the sight of the
ghouls.  Crys also flees.  Kidd uses his fire bolt staff, Leia summons the
power of Brigit and Jhere takes a couple of shots with her bow.  Only a few
ghouls survive the initial attack, but they are quickly joined by three
ghosts and a specter!  Leia collapses, struck by a lightning bolt from the
specter, but taking a ghoul with her.  A ghost closes with Jhere and she
switches to her quarterstaff, and is able to hold her own for the moment.
Crys fires the rod of the false gods at the specter, but nothing happens!
She is hit by a lightning bolt as the specter turns its attention to her.
Felicia, her battle axe raised, closes with a ghost, as Crys again tries the
rod against the specter.  The rod explodes!  Crys, a ghost that had moved to
attack her, and part of the fountain vanish.  Water pours out toward the
back of the chamber....

Elured finds Alicia, tosses her to his shoulder and starts to walk back to
the dwarven ruins.  As he reaches the pyre that Ragnor built, it flickers
out.  And Alicia's eyes flicker open....

Elured drops Alicia by the entrance as she painfully recovers consciousness.
As she gropes through her herbs for a remedy, Kateri comes up and begins
licking her injured wrist.  Almost instantly, the pain fades and in moments
it seems as though it were never injured.  As she strokes the cat's fur in
gratitude, she notices her censer glowing faintly - Elured has moved so far
away that the torch sheds no light here.  Alicia says a prayer to Mielikki
and joins Elured, with Kateri padding silently beside her.

They head cautiously into the ruins.  After a bit, they come upon Todd,
Ragnor and two specters.  None of them are moving at all.  Elured tries to
chop one of the specters with his sword, but the blade passes through it
without doing any damage.  They continue to the chamber where Elured had
last seen the rest of the group.  Again Alicia and Elured find a motionless
tableau.  Water from the broken fountain waits unmoving at the back of the
room.  Suddenly Alicia notices Leia lying mortally wounded by a ghoul and
rushes to her side.  As she plucks a flower from her wreath, she hears the
gushing of the fountain and everyone starts to move again.

Felicia takes a mighty swing at a nearby ghost and causes it to dissipate.
Jhere similarly dispatches a ghost with her quarterstaff.  Kidd blasts the
last ghoul into flame with his staff of fire bolts.  Alicia's flower becomes
a mirenna berry.  She burns it in her censer.  The fumes are so potent that
Alicia's and Leia's life forces are greatly strengthened and the unnatural
existence of a ghoul is terminated - it collapses into a pile of old bones.

Meanwhile, the specters outside make short work of Ragnor and Todd, blasting
them with lightning bolts before they can do any damage.  Elured, who had
left the room to aid them, soon meets the same fate.  One of the specters
fades out due to injuries Ragnor had inflicted in the one blow he'd been
able to strike (much earlier), and the other glides toward the chamber.  As
it does, Ragnor's maul strikes it from behind.  The specter whirls to face
its foe, but no one is standing!

Inside, Jhere is twice struck by lightning bolts but, aided by Freya, she
strikes back at the specter with her staff as Felicia chops at it with her
battle axe.  Soon it dissolves into nothingness, only to be replaced by the
remaining specter from outside.  Felicia finishes that one off with a swipe
of her battle axe, but is blasted by a lightning bolt from its cold orbs
before the specter disappears.

Jhere channels power to Alicia, so that she can cause an alambas poultice
she has prepared (from another flower in her wreath) to function instantly.
Otherwise, despite her best efforts, Leia will die.  It works!

While the effort to revive Leia is under way, something closes the wounds
of Todd, Ragnor and Elured.  The party gathers outside and exchanges herbs
and potions to revive the unconscious and heal much of the injuries we've
taken in the battle.  Ragnor revives first, and is surprised to find the
"Maul of the Titans" resting near Elured.  He looks back and forth between
the two before finally shaking his head and picking up the hammer.  Elured,
once he comes to, reminds Todd that the door they'd opened is still that
way and they head up the corridor to take care of it.  Todd closes the door
as Elured picks up his dropped sword.  Todd fixes Elured with a knowing
look, but Elured denies that that was the reason for the trip.

Kidd and Felicia race to the main entrance.  We join them shortly.  They
didn't make it in time - we're closed in.

While we ponder our next move, Jhere calls out to Kateri.  To Alicia's
consternation, the cat responds by coming over to Jhere, who strokes its
fur.  Kateri purrs and looks quite pleased....

Todd finds torch holders in all four corners of the intersection.  He
sticks a lit torch into one and, as expected, the wall lights up in both
directions.  The glow is uniformly orange, except in the middle of the
wall leading to the entrance.  There he finds a brown circle about a foot
in diameter.  Lighting the opposite wall from a torch holder reveals the
same pattern.  Elured marks that spot and Ragnor switches the torch back
to the other holder.  Todd and Elured try pushing the walls at the
indicated places.  Nothing seems to happen at first, then Elured's hand
suddenly sinks into the wall and the door on his side swings open.  Led
by Jhere, we make a hasty exit.

Alicia is offended that the cat seems to enjoy Jhere's attentions at least
as much as her own.  She refuses to talk to Jhere.

Ragnor offers his fur-lined boots to Elured, to replace the ones destroyed
by one of the lightning blasts.  Elured accepts, they fit perfectly.  Kidd
ends up offering his fur-lined boots to Jhere, to use in place of her
sandals.  Jhere tries them on and finds that they fit well enough and that
they're much warmer.  She thanks Kidd.

We spend the night just outside the entrance to the ruins.  Kidd tries to
dream about getting to the Axe.  He sees a corridor, about half as wide as
the ones that we've explored.  It slopes down steeply then is blocked by a
cave-in.  In his dream, he digs and digs and digs....  Finally, he emerges
into a natural tunnel.  He wanders a bit before finding a large cavern.
In the cavern, beyond a huge column, he sees an axe of marvelous workmanship
lying on the floor.

After we've rested, Kidd relates his dream.  Todd decides to seek an opening
into the corridor of Kidd's dream through the rooms we've encountered.  We
open the great doors once again.  Kateri leaps from Jhere's shoulders and
disappears into the ancient delvings.  Todd steps into the doorway and goes
into a trance.  After several minutes he tells us that he found many weapons
of fabulous quality, including battle axes, a dagger, and a two-handed sword,
in one of the rooms.  He did not find any hidden entrances, though.

The doors swing shut as their automatic time limit is reached.  Alicia and
Jhere are upset that Kateri has not returned.  A few minutes later, the cat
rubs up against Alicia legs....

Leia, Kidd and Felicia give potions of healing to Jhere, Todd and Ragnor.
After extensive debate, we decide to give Todd's room a try.  Jhere argues
vigorously against going and finally goes in only because everyone else is.
Todd consumes a potion of heroism and his enthusiasm for the venture rises.
Todd and Ragnor get the doors open and lead the way.  Kateri pads quickly
and silently ahead of the party.

When we reach the room, Kidd concentrates and, after he recovers from being
stunned by Kateri's astonishing life force, he tells us that there are five
sentient beings just inside the room and to the left of the door.  Alicia
tries to determine if they're living, but can't detect anything.  She's
tells us to expect undead.  Todd opens the left door and Leia hurls a ball
of fire from her glowing holy symbol into the approximate area that Kidd
designates.  Kateri slips unseen into the room before Kidd slams the door
shut.

Kidd reports that there are still five creatures inside.  We decide to
charge into the room.

Todd goes first diving and rolling into a crouch several feet from the
door.  Ragnor follows, without the theatrics.  Kidd goes next, fitting his
torch into the holder by the left door and illuminating that wall and about
a quarter of the chamber.  Felicia, Leia and Elured enter the room as the
other door is opened by Alicia.  Alicia and Jhere pause at the threshhold.
The five creatures turn out to be mummies, but before we can close with
them, one vanishes in a brilliant flash.  Leia strikes at three of the
remaining ones with simultaneous fire bolts.

As Ragnor moves closer to the mummies, we notice a glowing column, perhaps
15' from the mummies, approximately 8' tall and 4' in circumference, so
bright that we can't look directly at it.  The column moves as Ragnor comes
between it and the mummies.  Todd tries to circle widely so that he can
approach unnoticed (actually, so he can grab the dagger he sensed was in the
back of the chamber.  Felicia and Elured, both, head for the nearest mummy.
Alicia shoots an arrow at the glowing column; it misses.

Another mummy vanishes in a sudden flash.  Kidd hits one with a fire bolt
>from his staff.  Felicia and Elured make short work of one, as Ragnor hits
another, squashing it.  Todd runs screaming from the room - we can't see what
frightened him.  Alicia moves in looking for a clear shot with her bow.  The
column moves rapidly toward her.  Jhere insists that the column is Kateri;
Kidd quips that it's a guardian angel.  Ragnor, Elured and Felicia destroy
the last mummy.  There is a flash in the darkness near Alicia - she goes
racing from the room, screaming with fright.  Leia steps toward the center of
the room.  The column glides closer to her.  Another light flares briefly in
the darkness.  As Leia looks toward that spot, several daedhels emerge from
the darkness behind her.

Jhere shouts out a warning to Leia.  She whirls about and hurls a bolt of
flame into the on-rushing demon.  Felicia is not so lucky; preoccupied
with searching for another torch holder, she doesn't react to the demon
until too late.  Her leg is severed by a magical invocation and she falls
to the ground unconscious, her lifeblood spurting from the wound.  Elured
has his arm broken similarly, Kidd is stunned and Ragnor suddenly realizes
that he better get out of here fast and tries to slip away quietly.

A sudden burst of light marks the demise of another phantom (they never
reach the rest of us, but Todd and Alicia unfortunately got too close).

Ragnor's path is intercepted by a demon who strikes before he can, slashing
Ragnor's arm and stunning him.  Kidd blasts a demon with his staff of fire
bolts, Jhere clobbers one with her quarterstaff and Leia hits another with
a fire bolt.  Despite his injury, Elured manages to hack a demon with his
new two-handed sword.  There is another brilliant flash as the last phantom
is unmade, then everything goes dark.  Something reattaches the bones and
blood vessels between Felicia's left leg and her body, stopping the blood
loss.  The demon slashes at her, bringing her closer to the final night.
The demon attacking Jhere misses.  Jhere continues to pray fervently to
Freya and swings blindly, striking something with a satisfying crunch.

Elured concentrates and his arm begins to heal.  The darkness lifts and we
can see again.  Jhere discovers she has killed her adversary and rushes to
Ragnor's aid.  Leia attacks using her broadsword.  Ragnor's and Felicia's
opponents continue to hack at them.  Kidd blasts another demon with his
staff.  We suddenly have our strength renewed [all concussion hits restored]
and carry on the fight with new vigor.  Felicia regains consciousness in a
blaze of pain.  Disoriented she looks up at the demon that has been striking
at her and becomes convinced that it's her friend!

Leia finishes off Ragnor's assailant with a swing of her sword as Kidd does
in another with a fire bolt.  Jhere closes on the demon poised over Felicia
Felicia cries out in agony as the nerves and muscles of her leg are rejoined
by a another spell and then again to Jhere not to hurt her friend.  Jhere is
momentarily taken aback, but as the demon turns toward her, she raps it with
her quarterstaff anyway.  Moments later, she kills the demon with another
blow and Felicia sobs over the broken body.  Ragnor slips quietly away while
we're not looking.  Todd and Elured scavenge gems, jewelry and assorted
weapons from the room.  When Felicia comes to her senses, she picks up two
fancy axes that Todd points out.  Alicia sheepishly makes her way back into
the room then, standing in the middle of the room, she concentrates for
several minutes, seeking traces of magical power.

Elured is pleased to hear that his new sword is magical.  A dagger that Todd
thought would be, is not.  A battle axe that Felicia had ignored is, and she
adds that to her collection.  Jhere looks for Kateri, but the cat is nowhere
to be found.  Eventually we notice that the glowing column and Ragnor are
also gone.
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Mon Aug 13 11:07:15 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: Re: The Quest for the Axe of the Dwarven Lords (7)
Keywords: story
Date: 10 Aug 90 14:48:06 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


[Several people have requested descriptions of the PCs ... the events in this
 adventure took place during 1988 and the first half of 1989 ... the following
 information is a reconstruction based on the data available to me and my
 recollections ... classes & levels are based on ICEs "Character Law"]

CAST OF CHARACTERS:

Alicia		level 4 animist
Sex:	female		Height:	4' 11"		Hair Color:	blond
Race:	human		Weight:	94 pounds	Eye Color:	blue
Age:	17   (young adult)	
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Crystine (aka Crystal)		level 8 magician
Sex:	female		Height:	6' 1"?		Hair Color:	blond?
Race:	human		Weight:	150? pounds	Eye Color:	blue?
Age:	19?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Elured Cise	level 5 healer
Sex:	male		Height:	6' 0"		Hair Color:	dark brown
Race:	human		Weight:	187 pounds	Eye Color:	black
Age:	16   (young adult)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Felicia		level 6 fighter
Sex:	female		Height:	6' 4"		Hair Color:	blond
Race:	human		Weight:	160 pounds	Eye Color:	green
Age:	18   (young adult)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jhere Bremor	level 6 ranger
Sex:	female		Height:	5' 10"		Hair Color:	light brown
Race:	human		Weight:	162 pounds	Eye Color:	brown
Age:	26   (mature)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kidd R. Uing	level 6 mentalist
Sex:	male		Height:	5' 5.5"		Hair Color:	auburn
Race:	human		Weight:	150 pounds	Eye Color:	green
Age:	25   (mature)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Leia		level 8 cleric
Sex:	female		Height:	5' 1"		Hair Color:	black
Race:	human		Weight:	98 pounds	Eye Color:	blue
Age:	27   (mature)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ragnor (aka Raphael I. Ponti)	level 8 fighter
Sex:	male		Height:	6' 3"		Hair Color:	shaven
Race:	human		Weight:	187 pounds	Eye Color:	gray
Age:	23   (mature)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Todd Awir	level 5 seer
Sex:	male		Height:	5' 10"		Hair Color:	red
Race:	human		Weight:	177 pounds	Eye Color:	brown
Age:	20   (young adult)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

	LEIA FINDS A WAY & RAGNOR MAKES A HOLE
	WE FIGHT FIRE WITH FIRE, WALK SOFTLY AND CARRY BIG STICKS
	WE DISPATCH SOME EARTH ELEMENTALS
	ELURED AND ALICIA SMOOTH THE WAY
	FELICIA GETS THE AXE OF THE DWARVEN LORDS!

It is early morning on the 26th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in the dwarven ruins ...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

Leia once again goes into a trance to try to locate the axe.  We lead
her around the room then around the ruins.  Once she locates it, we
continue, until we're able to triangulate the exact position.  At the
point where we seem to be closest, we stop and discuss our next move.

We've not found the path of Kidd's dream and the axe seems to be about
20-30' below and off to one side from where we are.  Leia decides to
hold a formal ceremony invoking Brigit's aid.  Jhere holds up Leia's
cloak as a screen while she changes into her priestess' gown.

Leia recites a psalm in praise of Brigit as Felicia and Todd gather
close and the rest look on respectfully (though Ragnor is still missing):

	"She wakes up dancing with fire
	 Driving out the darkness
	 Lighting up the day.
	 Warm us, oh mighty Brigit.

	 She walks alongside violence
	 Ripeness of the afternoon
	 Powerful river of burning fire
	 The blazing sun.

	 She burns like fire in the hearth,
	 everywhere at once.
	 Shelter us in your flaming embrace,
	 Turn our enemies from us.
	 Great Brigit, yes."

She follows with a request for Brigit's guidance and her holy symbol glows
brightly in response.  Slowly, the wall of the corridor vanishes, revealing
a stone pathway to a glowing pavilion.  Without hesitation, Leia steps into
it.  Todd attempts to follow her, but finds himself back in the corridor.

l]	Leia enters Brigit's holy dominion of fire.  There she supplicates
l]	Brigit's aid in finding a path to the Axe of the Dwarven Lords.
l]	A three dimensional map impresses itself on her mind.  It takes a
l]	while before she can assimilate the information and make sense of
l]	it.  Then she studies the map, seeking a route to the axe and finds
l]	several - all blocked by the massive cave-in that we've already
l]	encountered.  She thanks Brigit and leaves the pavilion, bringing
l]	with her a perfect memory of the map.

Over six hours pass as we wait for Leia's return.  Jhere wants to enter the
pavilion, but the altar burns brightly with Brigit's flame - denying her
entrance.  We discuss what to do about Ragnor - clearly something is wrong.
Finally, Leia returns and tells what she's learned.  We decide to dig down
to a natural corridor below us.  Leia knows where we should make the attempt.
Felicia and Alicia set out to try to persuade Ragnor to rejoin us.  With the
Maul of the Titans, he should be able to knock a hole through more quickly
than we can hope to dig it.  Unnoticed, Jhere slips quietly into the glowing
pavilion.

j]	Jhere finds herself standing by a lake with stepping stones
j]	forming a penta-star in the middle.  One of the points of
j]	the penta-star is just within jumping distance.  Her holy
j]	symbol is still glowing.  The ambiant temperature is quite
j]	comfortable.  The colors are so sharp it looks "unreal":
j]	the water is crystal blue, with no sign of a bottom; the
j]	stepping stones are mirror-like silver; there's no sun, but
j]	a rainbow arches perfectly overhead in a deep blue sky.  She
j]	seems to be standing on the shore, but no surface is visible
j]	beneath her feet.  Looking down, she feels as though she's
j]	standing on nothing!

j]	Jhere instinctively jumps for what seems solid - the stepping
j]	stones.  She thinks she's going to miss the stone and land in
j]	the water ... but she makes it.

j]	Feeling much more secure and relaxed, and mentally as well as
j]	physically peaceful, she attempts to step gracefully from
j]	stone to stone till she reaches the center of the penta-star.
j]	Standing on the center stepping stone, the oddest thing happens
j]	when she looks back along the way she came ... she seems to be
j]	looking down a long, long tunnel with a bright light at the end,
j]	but she can't make out any details.  In fact, she has the same
j]	experience when she looks along any of the radii ... just like
j]	her first visit to the pavilion.

j]	She shrugs her pack off and carefully places it near the edge
j]	of the center stone by the arm leading back the way she came.
j]	She then places her bow and staff carefully at her feet, kneels
j]	by the edge and clasps her holy symbol and starts to pray...

j]	  "Oh, Freya, mightiest, yet gentliest of powers, you know
j]	   my heart and mind.  We've always been close (yet
j]	   distant).  In all things in love and nature and water
j]	   I have always followed thy will.

j]	   I did thy bidding when you had me seek the alien
j]	   abominations and join this young and often foolish
j]	   (though definitely courageous) party whose willingness
j]	   to foresake their lives has been proven over and over...

j]	   Forgive me for so arrogantly denying thy will that I be
j]	   more directly involved in channeling your powers.  Thank
j]	   you for thy symbol of your power, protection and love.
j]	   Thank you for providing me with an instrument to carry
j]	   out your will.

j]	   I beseach thee.  Grant me enlightment to understand and
j]	   use, to your honor and glory, these manifestations of
j]	   your universal strength.  Help me help the party survive
j]	   their quest.

j]	   All honor be done to thee!"

j]	And she reverently dips her hand in and takes a sip of the water.
j]	A feeling, as of a gentle massage, ripples through her body.  And
j]	all her tensions ease away.  She finds that she now understands
j]	all the capabilities of her rune-carved staff.

j]	She again thanks Freya and dips her (still glowing) holy symbol
j]	into the water.  She turns and picks up her weapons and starts
j]	back along the way she'd come.  Suddenly, someone appears at the
j]	far end of the row of stepping stones and starts toward Jhere.
j]	The newcomer is a woman about Jhere's height and weight, with hair
j]	nearly the same shade of light brown.  She's wearing a jerkin of
j]	soft leather, has a short bow slung over her shoulder and wields
j]	a quarterstaff in her hands.  As she draws closer, Jhere feels as
j]	though she's looking at her twin.  Suddenly Jhere realizes that
j]	the newcomer is going to attack her!

j]	Jhere braces for the woman's attack, and yells, "STOP!" as the
j]	woman reaches the stone just before the middle.  The woman doesn't
j]	stop....

j]	Jhere is not going to allow herself to be blindly attacked by
j]	something that appears to be her.  But she waits for it to strike
j]	first and only defends herself, hoping for an opportunity to
j]	wrestle the creature to the ground and disarm it.

j]	Jhere deflects the first swing.  The second swing catches her on
j]	her forearm.  Jhere continues to parry.  Regardless of who or why
j]	she's being attacked, she feels it's wrong to be fighting there
j]	especially with something that may indeed be "her" in some other
j]	incarnation....

j]	Jhere deflects most of the next blow.  She gets an opening and grabs
j]	at her adversary, attempting to toss her into the water, but misses.
j]	Her "twin" makes her pay dearly for the attempt, striking her soundly
j]	across the forearm and flicking the other end of the staff into
j]	Jhere's stomach.  Stunned, Jhere drops her staff and totters at the
j]	edge of the stepping stone.  The next blow cracks a rib and knocks her
j]	unconsious into the lake....

j]	Jhere awakens, floating in the lake, fully healed.  Her attacker is
j]	fitting an arrow to her bow.  Jhere dives under the water as Jhere's
j]	"twin" shoots.  The shot misses!  Jhere swims toward the stone, hoping
j]	it's platelike and not a pillar, with the idea of trying to rock it
j]	sharply and knock her foe off balance and into the water.  The
j]	stepping stone seems to be about a foot thick and four feet in
j]	diameter, floating on the surface.  Jhere grabs the edge, but can't
j]	budge it!

j]	On realizing she won't be able to tip the stone and that she is
j]	running out of air and is increasingly weighed down by her soggy
j]	clothes (especially Kidd's fur boots), she continues to swim under
j]	the stone to the other side and strongly pulls herself up and lunges
j]	for her foe's ankles either to shove her into the water or to pull
j]	her feet out from under her and tackle her.  Jhere gets kicked in
j]	the jaw and knocked back into the water as she tries to climb onto
j]	the stone.  The wound heals immediately.  Her adversary readies
j]	another arrow ...

j]	Jhere takes a deep breath and sinks and swims under and behind her
j]	foe, having noted which side her quarterstaff is lying on and again
j]	quickly lunges up onto the stone rolling for her staff.  Jhere rams
j]	her staff into her adversary's thigh, bruising her badly.  Jhere's
j]	foe staggers but doesn't fall as Jhere rolls to her feet.  Jhere is
j]	too close for her "twin" to be able to shoot, so the "twin" drops
j]	her bow and grabs for her quarterstaff.

j]	At this point Jhere, holding her quarterstaff horizontally in front
j]	of her leaps at her "twin".  Caught in the act of picking up her own
j]	staff, the "twin" cannot parry.  Jhere's attack cracks ribs and
j]	smashes the twin's nose, she falls into the water, unconscious.  And
j]	disappears.

j]	Jhere falls to her knees by the edge of the stone and looks over the
j]	side looking for her "twin".  And she starts to cry.  In shock and
j]	fear and anger.  She sits back and pulls off her boots and wrings
j]	them out as best she can and pulls her bow over next to her. Then she
j]	looks for the "twin's" bow and staff and finds that they are gone. 
j]	Kneeling, she again prays to Freya, thanking her for preserving her
j]	her and asking for enlightenment about what has transpired.  Then
j]	Jhere pulls the boots (they're dry!) back on and starts back down the
j]	arm of the penta-star.  She reaches the last stone and, trusting her
j]	memory and Freya, leaps outward ...

Jhere, her clothes dry, emerges moments after she enters, before anyone has a
chance to miss her.  Meanwhile, Alicia and Felicia play tag with Ragnor in the
hallways of the ruins.  Finally, they get him to listen to what the have to
say.  After much persuasion, Ragnor agrees to follow Felicia back to the rest
of us.  Felicia keeps thinking that it would have been a lot easier if Alicia
would have listened to her and shown Ragnor some leg.  Ragnor still won't
approach the party too closely and, when Kidd comes out to talk with him, just
keeps backing away.  Kidd concentrates (twice) and Ragnor suddenly takes a
great liking to him.  Kidd asks his good friend Ragnor to knock a hole in the
floor at the spot Leia indicates.  And, after the rest of us step back (so
he knows we're not going to jump him), he knocks a hole all the way through
with a single blow!  The opening is a little over three feet in diameter and
at least ten feet deep - our torches don't show the bottom.

Alicia leans over the opening and then tells us that she doesn't detect any
activity below.  Elured says we ought to wait a while (like a few hours so
his arm can finish healing), so we can be sure nothing comes to investigate.

We decide to rest the night to give Elured's arm a chance to finish healing
and so that we recover our full strength before entering the caves below.
We keep a careful watch over the hole, but nothing comes out of it.  In fact,
the night passes without event, other than Ragnor slipping away again.

This time we send Kidd, Alicia and Todd out to get him.  When they find him,
Kidd again manages to cast a charm on Ragnor so that he'll come along.

Meanwhile, Leia prepares to sacrifice a gem that Elured has given her to
Brigit.  Elured tries unsuccessfully to make a similar sacrifice to Diancecht.

We gather around as Leia offers her prayer.  The gem vanishes with a brilliant
flash of fire.  Ragnor is cured and Elured finds that the world suddenly goes
silent.  We find that Elured can't make a sound and give thanks to Leia and
Brigit.

Todd suggests that Leia hurl a fireball into the hole before we start down.
Kidd and Alicia check and, to no one's surprise, they discover that something
waits below.  Leia uses her holy symbol to throw a fireball.  An instant later
fire blasts those of us gathered near the hole.  Ragnor takes the worst injury,
losing the use of his left arm.

But the power released from the gem still lingers, suddenly Ragnor's arm is
healed.  Leia wonders what kind of monster lays in wait and the answer pops
into her head - demon dogs!   She calls on Brigit to dispell the beasts and
the howling that began when Leia cast her fireball abruptly quiets.  We lower
a lantern on a rope.  The beasts below stare balefully up at the hole, but
don't move.  Cautiously, Felicia slides down.  She is not attacked.  Jhere
follows.  And then the rest of us.  Only Elured slips, falling more than half
the distance and shattering his wrist.

A moment later his wrist his healed, as Leia holy symbol flashes.  Jhere prays
silently, invoking Freya's aid to increase the might of Ragnor's attacks.  And
so, the battle ends anti-climatically as Ragnor smashes each of the demon dogs,
one at a time, with the maul.  Felicia and Todd join in on the last one in a
frenzy of violence.

Just as we kill the last of the demon dogs, a whirling ball of earth comes
around the corner, hurtling rapidly toward us.  More follow, forming a line,
like beads on a string.  Only these beads are 5' in diameter and anything
but pretty.  They are earth elementals.

Leia prays for Brigit's divine intervention.  Jhere prays to Freya.  Both
holy symbols grow brighter.  Felicia swings her new battle axe, but as she
strikes, the elemental entraps her left arm.  Leia hurls a fire bolt from
her holy symbol, Elured swings his sword, Kidd fires a fire bolt from his
staff, Ragnor fumbles his maul and Alicia fumbles an arrow.  Todd leaps up
"behind" one the elementals and stabs with his dagger.  Felicia's arm is
released by the elemental that was holding it.  Ragnor pounds one back into
the ground that gave it birth.  Leia turns one to dust with an enchantment
passed from Brigit.  Elured slashes with his sword again.  Jhere crushes the
nearest elemental with a blow from her staff (though it deals her a minor
bruise in exchange).  Alicia misses with an arrow.  Todd stabs at another
with his dagger, after leaping onto it from behind.  Leia, with Brigit's
guidance, turns another to dust.  Ragnor smashes another into the cave floor.
Elured is stunned by an elemental, as Jhere slams into it with her staff.
Alicia is swallowed up by one - the swirling particles sever her windpipe!
Todd stabs it with his dagger, but it doesn't release it's hold.  Leia turns
it to dust, still blazing with Brigit's power.  Elured begins to recover from
his injuries and slashes the elemental that hurt him.  Jhere finishes it with
a terrific wallop from her quarterstaff.  Leia prays for Alicia's life and an
orange glow bathes Alicia's throat closing the wound.

The elementals have all been destroyed.  Leia offers a prayer of thanks and
asks for our speedy recovery from our injuries.  Everyone suddenly feels
refreshed and invigorated.

Felicia can barely restrain herself.  We are at last so close to the end of
her quest.  She leads us quickly around the last turns to the cavern where
the Axe of the Dwarven Lords lies waiting.  As she rounds the final turn, she
is struck by a lightning bolt!

She somehow staggers back to us.  Kidd concentrates on what lies ahead - he
finds a swirling column of earth, 10' in diameter and roughly 15' high, just
beyond the cavern entrance.  In the center of the cavern, a marvelous axe lies
on the floor.

Felicia heads in again, with Kidd at her side.  A pit opens beneath their feet
and they fall to the bottom.  Through magical means Kidd lands unharmed, but
Felicia is not so lucky.  As Kidd digs through his pack for a rope to tie on
her so he can pull her out of the pit, he hears a cracking noise overhead.  He
looks up as the cavern ceiling caves in....

Hearing the crash, we dare to glance around the corner and see the ruin that
marks the demise of our companions.  Leia takes one of her earrings and offers
a prayer to Brigit:

	"Oh Brigit, Great Keeper of the Fire.
	 Yea though we walk through this cavern of darkness,
	 We fear no evil.
	 For you are with us.
	 Guide us, protect us and aid us in our quest.
	 Oh Great Brigit,
	 You are our one and only flame."

The gemstone from her earring vanishes in a flash of flame and her ring glows
brightly again, indicating the presence of divine power.  She utters a plea
to Brigit on behalf of Kidd and Felicia....

The rock that piled upon becomes a fine powder.  An implosion sucks the powder
away leaving only their bodies in the pit.  Todd crawls toward them but can't
reach them before he's stunned, doubled up in pain by some unseen force....

On his second attempt he reaches them and exhausts his magical abilities by
levitating them from the pit; pushing them toward us once they clear the top
of the pit.  Then he crawls from the pit himself.

Meanwhile, Jhere invokes Freya's aid for Kidd as Leia calls on Brigit to save
Felicia.  Their holy symbols glow blue and orange, respectively, then their
patients are likewise bathed in glowing light.  They begin to breathe again,
though Kidd takes a bit longer to regain consciousness.

Todd hurls a dagger at the swirling column, missing it, before ducking back
around the corner to rejoin us.  Now that Felicia has regained consciousness,
Leia focuses her attention on the column as well, blasting it with three bolts
of fire from her holy symbol....

Though apparently unaffected by Leia's fire bolts, the swirling column (an
earth guardian) responds by causing a wall of earth to form, blocking us from
the corner.

Ragnor starts to pound his way through the wall with his maul....

Elured offers a large amber stone to Diancecht with a prayer to aid the party
in completing Felicia's quest.  The stone disappears with a bright flash -
everyone is suddenly healed of their injuries.  Felicia's broken ribs mend
instantly as the injury is transferred to Elured (who suddenly regrets the
phrasing of his prayer).  Elured concentrates to initiate the healing of his
ribs and withdraws to the back of the group.

Ragnor stops his assault on the wall long enough to find out who healed him.
He is astonished to discover that it was Elured's doing, then he thanks him.

Alicia and Jhere ask if anyone has picked up gems suitable for sacrifice to
their deities.  Todd and Elured each turn a peridot over to Alicia.  No one
seems to have found an opal, to Jhere's disappointment.

Alicia offers both gems to Mielikki with a prayer to help Felicia get the Axe.
The gems vanish in a blaze of green light.  A breeze starts to blow past us
toward the earthen wall.  The wind picks up until it reaches gale force.  We
cling desperately to the passage walls.  The earth wall rapidly wears down and
the wind dies down as well.  As we catch our breath, a fog begins to form.
Soon the mist reduces our vision to arm's length.

Felicia drinks a potion of speed that Leia gives her and creeps carefully
forward.  When she reaches the pit, she lowers herself down.  The wind has
piled so much dirt into the bottom that she can reach the rim.  The soft dirt
silences her steps.  When she reaches the opposite side, she hauls herself out
and presses closely to the cavern wall.  Her view is totally obscured by the
mist.  Clinging to the wall, she goes far enough to believe she has past the
earth guardian, then heads out at an angle toward where she hopes the Axe lies.
A few steps take her right to the column!  She quickly heads back to the wall.
A tremor shakes the ground, loose rocks fall all about.  Somehow, we escape
injury.  She follows the wall a bit further, then heads toward the center of
the cavern again.  Amazingly her sense of direction is so good that she nearly
trips over the Axe!

She picks it up, dropping the one she'd been carrying.  The Axe of the Dwarven
Lords feels warm to her touch, as though it were alive!  As she picks up the
Axe, the fog begins to dissipate.  She jogs back the way she'd come.  With the
potion's aid, she clears the pit and rounds the corner before the mist lifts
enough to reveal her to the swirling column.

She tells us that it's time to clear out and leads the way, but before we reach
the first turn, our way is blocked by a line of earth elementals.  She strikes
the first one with the Axe - it collapses into the earth from which it was
formed.  Ragnor moves up to stand beside her as Felicia chops into the second
elemental, destroying it.  But she was hit by its fringe and hesitates and the
next approaches.  Ragnor pounds it with the maul and is bashed in return by the
elemental.  A moment later Felicia finishes it off as Ragnor recovers.  The
next rolls toward them....
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801

From bwr@cbnewsj.att.com Tue Aug 14 08:32:59 1990
From: bwr@cbnewsj.att.com (bruce.w.reisman)
Newsgroups: rec.games.frp
Subject: Re: The Quest for the Axe of the Dwarven Lords (8)
Summary: exciting? conclusion
Keywords: story
Date: 13 Aug 90 15:53:37 GMT
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories


	AND WE THOUGHT GETTING IN WAS ROUGH ...
	LEIA SEES A GODDESS
	WE SEE A FAMILIAR FACE

It is early morning on the 27th day of Lo Spring in the year 6049
The weather is:
	temperature:	~60 (we're in caves beneath the dwarven ruins ...)
	wind:		0 mph (calm)

Felicia and Ragnor prove too powerful for the earth elementals, demolishing
each one in turn as it reaches them.  Ragnor pauses to polish the gore from
his hammer.  Alicia burns some gursamel in her censer - the fumes cause
Elured's broken ribs to knit instantly....

We climb up the rope through the hole and make our way back to the great
doors of the dwarven delvings.  Employing the same routine we've used in
the past, we open the doors and exit....

We follow along the wall of the great cavern to the underground lake.  Jhere
walks across as Alicia becomes a thyfur and ferries the rest of us.  On the
far side, Alicia alerts us that some thing is moving to intercept us before
we can climb out of the cavern.  Leia prays - her holy symbol blazes - and
causes a wall of fire to spring up between us and our would-be assailants.
They turn tail and run!  It seems that ice hounds are terrified of fire....

We climb up to the corridor that we used on the way in.  As we continue up
and out, our way is barred by a party of stone trolls.  Felicia, using the
Axe of the Dwarven Lords, cleaves the first one nearly in two.  The others
retreat out of sight and we continue on our way.  A huge rumble shakes the
corridor ... not for the first time ... some loose fragments tumble about
and we wonder whether a collapse is imminent....

We are unopposed as we snake through a narrow passage, coming ever closer to
the entrance to the catacombs.  We reach the collapsed bridge.  Todd leaps
across, carrying one end of a rope.  After he secures it, we follow....

We near the final turn and come to an abrupt halt.  The sounds of many
monsters' growls mingle in a horrible cacophony ahead.  A fire ball explodes
at the end of the tunnel we want to take.  Kidd concentrates, attempting to
discover the nature of the battle....

Kidd tells us that the sstoi'isslythi are camped outside.  Between the exit
and where we stand, a large number of creatures are massed ... seeking
egress.  Whenever one of them attempts to charge out, the sstoi'isslythi hurl
some potent magic against it to drive it back.  It appears to be a stand-off,
but effectively prevents our departure.  The cave trembles again....

We retreat a bit, then Alicia warns of creatures coming up behind us.  We
duck into a side corridor....

Leia, Alicia and Jhere offer prayers to their deities.  Leia offers her
other earring and a psalm to Brigit:

	"In Fire we walk
	 Fire before us
	 Fire behind us
	 Fire above us
	 Fire under us
	 Fire all around us
	 In Fire it is returned
	 In Fire it is returned."

She concludes with a prayer for rescue from this awful place.  The jacinth
disappears in a flash of orange fire, and so do Leia and Todd!  Jhere's
prayer for support in answered with a glow from her holy symbol.  Alicia
offers a gem (provided by Elured) and various herbs.  The jewel vanishes
in a flash of green fire, the herbs are refused.  Alicia mutters under her
breath when no obvious aid appears.

We decide to try to help ourselves.  Felicia and Jhere take the lead.
Kidd follows, bearing a torch, with Alicia.  Elured comes next and Ragnor
provides a rear guard.

The first creatures we encounter are geryons.  They are not expecting an
attack from behind - too bad.  Felicia and Jhere make quick work of them,
with a little help from Elured and Alicia.

Four sabertooth tigers give us only slightly more trouble.  Alicia causes
them to go to sleep and our weapons make their slumbers permanent.  Jhere
takes a thigh wound that closes miraculously before too much blood is lost.

The noise of that battle alerts the stone trolls beyond.  The closest of
their numbers turn to face us before we can surprise them.  Felicia's Axe,
Elured's sword and Jhere's staff end their miserable existence ...

The creatures now realize that they're trapped between two powerful forces
and that they have no place to run.  The going from here on is going to be
much tougher ...

The blades of Felicia and Elured combined with the crushing power of Ragnor
and Jhere's weapons prove too potent for the stone trolls.  Alicia's bow
seems surprisingly effective, as well.  Soon the bodies of thirteen of those
ferocious fighters lie like broken stone columns in our wake ...

A fire ball explodes somewhere between our battle and the cave mouth ...

We next encounter a group of mountain trolls.  Though we quickly dispatch
five of them, still more remain.  Felicia is now bleeding from a hip wound,
Ragnor falters with a painful bruise to his leg, Elured pauses to repair
some of the wounds he's taken and Jhere is beginning to feel the weight of
her accumulated cuts and bruises ...

We battle forward.  Kidd suddenly feels himself yanked down into solid rock.
Using his circlet, he moves himself upward 500 feet at a 60 degree angle.  He
materializes about 300 feet in the air, above a huge mass of sstoi'isslythi,
and saves himself from falling into them by casting an accelerated levitate
spell on himself.

As Kidd vanishes from our midst, we are plunged into sudden darkness.  Our
eyes adjust quickly and we find we can see our foes, at least in silhouette,
thanks to our proximity to the exit.  We're almost there!

We kill the remaining mountain trolls and begin battling a group of nagas.

			*	*	*

l]	Leia finds herself in the almost familiar surroundings of the inner
l]	sanctum of Brigit's pavilion - though she's unsure as to how she
l]	came to be there.  She walks along a radius of the pentastar to the
l]	center, kneels and offers a prayer for the party's saftey.

l]	A beautiful woman clothed in flame appears before her.  She assures
l]	Leia that the party is in no great danger and offers her hand.  Leia
l]	clasps it with hers, not fearing that the fire will harm her - it
l]	does not.  The woman turns with Leia to face one of the endless
l]	tunnels that appear when gazing along a radius from the center.

l]	Abruptly, Leia and the woman (Brigit?) are at the other end of the
l]	tunnel (or is it the same place?), standing in the center of another
l]	pentastar...

t]	Todd finds himself in a place of blinding light, surrounded by voices
t]	raised in shrill, but somehow pleasing, song.  He cannot see anything
t]	or anyone - the brightness seals his sight.  He calls out.  No one
t]	answers.  He shouts Leia's name.  All he hears is the singing.  He
t]	offers a prayer to Brigit.  It grows brighter in front of him.  Out
t]	of the brightness a blazing figure appears.  His first impression is
t]	that it is Leia, but more powerful, more sensual than he's ever seen
t]	her.  The fiery woman speaks: she tells him to guard her servant, Leia,
t]	with his life.  She turns and vanishes into the light.  Todd suddenly
t]	is standing before a multitude of sstoi'isslythi.  Leia, glowing
t]	brightly, stands nearby.  He moves up to her side.

l]	For days upon days, until she has no idea of the time that she has
l]	spent, Leia attends the fiery woman each waking moment.  From her,
l]	Leia learns the secret ways of the greatest of Brigit's accolytes.
l]	She gives Leia a new holy symbol and strengthens the magic of her
l]	sword.  Somewhere, sometime during her stay, Leia misplaces her pack.
l]	But there is nothing in it which she requires by the time she departs.

l]	As Leia leaves, brought back along the path between the pentastars,
l]	she is told that she is to serve as Brigit's representative in the
l]	world.  Leia first attempts to find her usual exit from a pavilion,
l]	between two pillars; but she cannot find any.  Instead, she sees a
l]	shimmering in the air before her.  Unsure, she summons her courage
l]	and steps closer and closer and ...

l]	Leia suddenly is standing before a multitude of sstoi'isslythi.  Todd,
l]	who was standing nearby, moves up to her side.

The sstoi'isslythi seem in awe of Leia.  They scarcely move.  Kidd sees the
sudden brightness of their appearance and astonished to see that Leia is the
cause.  Leia tells the sstoi'isslythi that they are friends and after a bit, a
familiar voice (and figure) comes from the back - Leethth makes his way toward
them.
			*	*	*

Felicia takes a stunning blow and cracks from the strain of battle.  Screaming
like a madwoman, she suddenly runs wildly down the center of the tunnel and out
of the cave, barely stopping in time to keep from colliding with Todd and Leia.

Leethth translates for Leia, telling the masses that they are friends.  Then he
begins examining the Axe of the Dwarven Lords that Felicia is anxious to show
him.  Leia and Todd head into the cave to help the rest of us get out....

Jhere attacks the naga that crippled Elured.  Elured moves clear but is
attacked by another.  Ragnor strikes a mighty blow at yet another naga
and is slashed in return!  He staggers toward the exit bleeding badly.
Alicia shoots a naga, but her bow breaks!

Leia and Todd are attacked by chameleon amoebas.  Todd kills his with a
single thrust, but is left lying on the cave floor, badly stunned by the
attack.  Leia hurls small balls of fire at her attacker, barely noticing
the weak strike it made at her.  A bright orange glow leaps from Leia to
Todd; he quickly rises to his feet and intervenes between Leia and a naga
moving toward her.

A blue glow extends from Jhere to Elured; his slashed tendons start to
mend.  An amoeba attacks Ragnor, doing him a slight injury before he
staggers clear.  Elured is struck again, badly, as he attempts to make
his way out.  Todd slays the naga with a single blow!  Leia fries the
amoeba that persists in attacking her.  Jhere smashes a naga over the
head with her staff.  Its attack misses.  Elured's slashed muscles begin
to heal, as he is again bathed in a blue glow from Jhere.

Alicia attempts to prevent a naga from attacking, but her spell misfires
and she is stunned.  Todd engages another naga, before it can get to Leia,
killing it with two swings and taking only minor injury.  A sword of flame
forms on Leia's hand and she uses it to slay the last chameleon amoeba.
The remaining naga is occupied with Jhere - Todd leaps on its back,
stabbing his dagger through its ear into its brain; Leia swings her blade
of fire into its tail.  It abruptly ceases to live.  We make our way out
without further difficulty.

Alicia stops Ragnor's and Felicia's bleeding.  They are carried on litters
to Leethth's dwelling.  We spend the rest of the day and night there,
telling Leethth of our (mis-)adventures and answering his endless questions.
Leia's inner glow persists.  Any of the sstoi'isslythi that come near to
her seem to go out of their way to please her; to cater to her every need.

We rest that night feeling safe for the first time in days....

			*	*	*

	THUS ENDS THE QUEST! ... but their exploits continue!
-- 
- + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + - + -
      Bruce W. Reisman          AT&T  Bell Laboratories
      att!mtfmi!bwr             200 Laurel Avenue   MT 3G-102
      908/957-6533              Middletown, NJ  07748-4801


Aesop's Fables Translated by George Fyler Townsend 



 
The Wolf and the Lamb 
 
WOLF, meeting with a Lamb astray from the fold, resolved not to
lay violent hands on him, but to find some plea to justify to the
Lamb the Wolf's right to eat him.  He thus addressed him:
"Sirrah, last year you grossly insulted me."  "Indeed," bleated
the Lamb in a mournful tone of voice, "I was not then born."  Then
said the Wolf, "You feed in my pasture."  "No, good sir," replied
the Lamb, "I have not yet tasted grass."  Again said the Wolf,
"You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet
drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink
to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying,
"Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every
one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for
his tyranny.


The Bat and the Weasels 
 
A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded
to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by
nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was
not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.  Shortly
afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by
another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The
Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat
assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second
time escaped.  
 
It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.  

 
The Ass and the Grasshopper 
 
AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly
enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody,
demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such
beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that
he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger. 

 
The Lion and the Mouse 
 
A LION was awakened from sleep by a Mouse running over his face. 
Rising up angrily, he caught him and was about to kill him, when
the Mouse piteously entreated, saying:  "If you would only spare
my life, I would be sure to repay your kindness."  The Lion
laughed and let him go.  It happened shortly after this that the
Lion was caught by some hunters, who bound him by st ropes to the
ground.  The Mouse, recognizing his roar, came gnawed the rope
with his teeth, and set him free, exclaim 
 
"You ridiculed the idea of my ever being able to help you,
expecting to receive from me any repayment of your favor; I now
you know that it is possible for even a Mouse to con benefits on
a Lion."  
 

The Charcoal-Burner and the Fuller 
 
A CHARCOAL-BURNER carried on his trade in his own house.  One day
he met a friend, a Fuller, and entreated him to come and live
with him, saying that they should be far better neighbors and
that their housekeeping expenses would be lessened.  The Fuller
replied, "The arrangement is impossible as far as I am concerned,
for whatever I should whiten, you would immediately blacken again
with your charcoal."  
 
Like will draw like.   


The Father and His Sons 
 
A FATHER had a family of sons who were perpetually quarreling
among themselves.  When he failed to heal their disputes by his
exhortations, he determined to give them a practical illustration
of the evils of disunion; and for this purpose he one day told
them to bring him a bundle of sticks.  When they had done so, he
placed the faggot into the hands of each of them in succession,
and ordered them to break it in pieces.  They tried with all
their strength, and were not able to do it.  He next opened the
faggot, took the sticks separately, one by one, and again put
them into his sons' hands, upon which they broke them easily.  He
then addressed them in these words:  "My sons, if you are of one
mind, and unite to assist each other, you will be as this faggot,
uninjured by all the attempts of your enemies; but if you are
divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these
sticks."  
 

The Boy Hunting Locusts 
 
A BOY was hunting for locusts.  He had caught a goodly number,
when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached
out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said:
If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and
all your locusts too!"  
 

The Cock and the Jewel 
 
A COCK, scratching for food for himself and his hens, found a
precious stone and exclaimed:  "If your owner had found thee, and
not I, he would have taken thee up, and have set thee in thy
first estate; but I have found thee for no purpose.  I would
rather have one barleycorn than all the jewels in the world."  
 

The Kingdom of the Lion 
 
THE BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He
was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle
as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal
proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts,
and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf
and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag,
the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and
amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in
which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side
of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his
life.  
 

The Wolf and the Crane 
 
A WOLF who had a bone stuck in his throat hired a Crane, for a
large sum, to put her head into his mouth and draw out the bone. 
When the Crane had extracted the bone and demanded the promised
payment, the Wolf, grinning and grinding his teeth, exclaimed:
"Why, you have surely already had a sufficient recompense, in
having been permitted to draw out your head in safety from the
mouth and jaws of a wolf."  
 
In serving the wicked, expect no reward, and be thankful if you
escape injury for your pains.  
 

The Fisherman Piping 
 
A FISHERMAN skilled in music took his flute and his nets to the
seashore.  Standing on a projecting rock, he played several tunes
in the hope that the fish, attracted by his melody, would of
their own accord dance into his net, which he had placed below. 
At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and
casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish. 
When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said:
"O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance,
but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."  
 

Hercules and the Wagoner 
 
A CARTER was driving a wagon along a country lane, when the
wheels sank down deep into a rut.  The rustic driver, stupefied
and aghast, stood looking at the wagon, and did nothing but utter
loud cries to Hercules to come and help him.  Hercules, it is
said, appeared and thus addressed him:  "Put your shoulders to the
wheels, my man.  Goad on your bullocks, and never more pray to me
for help, until you have done your best to help yourself, or
depend upon it you will henceforth pray in vain."  
 
Self-help is the best help.   


The Ants and the Grasshopper 
 
THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected
in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed
by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of
him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He
replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in
singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough
to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the
winter."  
 

The Traveler and His Dog 
 
A TRAVELER about to set out on a journey saw his Dog stand at the
door stretching himself.  He asked him sharply:  "Why do you stand
there gaping? Everything is ready but you, so come with me
instantly."  The Dog, wagging his tail, replied:  "O, master! I am
quite ready; it is you for whom I am waiting."  
 
The loiterer often blames delay on his more active friend.  
 

The Dog and the Shadow 
 
A DOG, crossing a bridge over a stream with a piece of flesh in
his mouth, saw his own shadow in the water and took it for that
of another Dog, with a piece of meat double his own in size.  He
immediately let go of his own, and fiercely attacked the other
Dog to get his larger piece from him.  He thus lost both:  that
which he grasped at in the water, because it was a shadow; and
his own, because the stream swept it away.  
 

The Mole and His Mother 
 
A MOLE, a creature blind from birth, once said to his Mother:  "I
am sure than I can see, Mother!"  In the desire to prove to him
his mistake, his Mother placed before him a few grains of
frankincense, and asked, "What is it?'  The young Mole said, "It
is a pebble."  His Mother exclaimed:  "My son, I am afraid that you
are not only blind, but that you have lost your sense of smell.  
 

The Herdsman and the Lost Bull 
 
A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from
the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that,
if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he
would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian
Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a
small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf. 
Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to
heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the
Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had
robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would
willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may
only secure my own escape from him in safety."  
 

The Hare and the Tortoise 
 
A HARE one day ridiculed the short feet and slow pace of the
Tortoise, who replied, laughing:  "Though you be swift as the
wind, I will beat you in a race."  The Hare, believing her
assertion to be simply impossible, assented to the proposal; and
they agreed that the Fox should choose the course and fix the
goal.  On the day appointed for the race the two started
together.  The Tortoise never for a moment stopped, but went on
with a slow but steady pace straight to the end of the course. 
The Hare, lying down by the wayside, fell fast asleep.  At last
waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise
had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her
fatigue.  
 
Slow but steady wins the race.  
 

The Pomegranate, Apple-Tree, and Bramble 
 
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most
beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from
the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful
tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from
such vain disputings."  
 

The Farmer and the Stork 
 
A FARMER placed nets on his newly-sown plowlands and caught a
number of Cranes, which came to pick up his seed.  With them he
trapped a Stork that had fractured his leg in the net and was
earnestly beseeching the Farmer to spare his life.  "Pray save
me, Master," he said, "and let me go free this once.  My broken
limb should excite your pity.  Besides, I am no Crane, I am a
Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and
slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers--
they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer 
laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know 
this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you 
must die in their company."  
 
Birds of a feather flock together.   


The Farmer and the Snake 
 
ONE WINTER a Farmer found a Snake stiff and frozen with cold.  He
had compassion on it, and taking it up, placed it in his bosom. 
The Snake was quickly revived by the warmth, and resuming its
natural instincts, bit its benefactor, inflicting on him a mortal
wound.  "Oh," cried the Farmer with his last breath, "I am
rightly served for pitying a scoundrel."  
 
The greatest kindness will not bind the ungrateful.  
 

The Fawn and His Mother 
 
A YOUNG FAWN once said to his Mother, "You are larger than a dog,
and swifter, and more used to running, and you have your horns as
a defense; why, then, O Mother! do the hounds frighten you so?"
She smiled, and said:  "I know full well, my son, that all you say
is true.  I have the advantages you mention, but when I hear even
the bark of a single dog I feel ready to faint, and fly away as
fast as I can."  
 
No arguments will give courage to the coward.  
 

The Bear and the Fox 
 
A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all
animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had
such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body. 
A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh!
that you would eat the dead and not the living."  
 

The Swallow and the Crow 
 
THE SWALLOW and the Crow had a contention about their plumage. 
The Crow put an end to the dispute by saying, "Your feathers are
all very well in the spring, but mine protect me against the
winter."  
 
Fair weather friends are not worth much.  
 

The Mountain in Labor 
 
A MOUNTAIN was once greatly agitated.  Loud groans and noises
were heard, and crowds of people came from all parts to see what
was the matter.  While they were assembled in anxious expectation
of some terrible calamity, out came a Mouse.  
 
Don't make much ado about nothing.  
 

The Ass, the Fox, and the Lion 
 
THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for
their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They
had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing
imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for
him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not
to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not
be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he
should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured,
immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his
leisure.  
 

The Tortoise and the Eagle  

A TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the
sea-birds of her hard fate, that no one would teach her to fly. 
An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what
reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float
her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of
the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and
taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds 
suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing
her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of
death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do
with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the
earth?'  
 
If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.   


The Flies and the Honey-Pot 
 
A NUMBER of Flies were attracted to a jar of honey which had been
overturned in a housekeeper's room, and placing their feet in it,
ate greedily.  Their feet, however, became so smeared with the
honey that they could not use their wings, nor release
themselves, and were suffocated.  Just as they were expiring,
they exclaimed, "O foolish creatures that we are, for the sake of
a little pleasure we have destroyed ourselves."  
 
Pleasure bought with pains, hurts.  
 

The Man and the Lion 
 
A MAN and a Lion traveled together through the forest.  They soon
began to boast of their respective superiority to each other in
strength and prowess.  As they were disputing, they passed a
statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a
Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong
we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The
Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we
Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed
under the paw of the Lion."  
 
One story is good, till another is told.  
 

The Farmer and the Cranes 
 
SOME CRANES made their feeding grounds on some plowlands newly
sown with wheat.  For a long time the Farmer, brandishing an
empty sling, chased them away by the terror he inspired; but when
the birds found that the sling was only swung in the air, they
ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.  The Farmer,
on seeing this, charged his sling with stones, and killed a great
number.  The remaining birds at once forsook his fields, crying
to each other, "It is time for us to be off to Liliput:  for this
man is no longer content to scare us, but begins to show us in
earnest what he can do."  
 
If words suffice not, blows must follow.  
 

The Dog in the Manger 
 
A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and snapping prevented
the oxen from eating the hay which had been placed for them. 
"What a selfish Dog!"  said one of them to his companions; "he
cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to allow those to eat
who can."  
 

The Fox and the Goat 
 
A FOX one day fell into a deep well and could find no means of
escape.  A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and
seeing the Fox, inquired if the water was good.  Concealing his
sad plight under a merry guise, the Fox indulged in a lavish
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
encouraging him to descend.  The Goat, mindful only of his
thirst, thoughtlessly jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox
informed him of the difficulty they were both in and suggested a
scheme for their common escape.  "If," said he, "you will place
your forefeet upon the wall and bend your head, I will run up
your back and escape, and will help you out afterwards."  The Goat
readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.  Steadying
himself with the Goat's horns, he safely reached the mouth of the
well and made off as fast as he could.  When the Goat upbraided
him for breaking his promise, he turned around and cried out,
"You foolish old fellow! If you had as many brains in your head
as you have hairs in your beard, you would never have gone down
before you had inspected the way up, nor have exposed yourself to
dangers from which you had no means of escape."  
 
Look before you leap.  
 

The Bear and the Two Travelers 
 
TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on
their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and
concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he
must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came
up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held
his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he
could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch
a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler
descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend
what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this
advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who
deserts you at the approach of danger."  
 
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.  
 

The Oxen and the Axle-Trees 
 
A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of
Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the
Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why
do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not
you, ought to cry out."  
 
Those who suffer most cry out the least.  
 

The Thirsty Pigeon 
 
A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
painted on a signboard.  Not supposing it to be only a picture,
she flew towards it with a loud whir and unwittingly dashed
against the signboard, jarring herself terribly.  Having broken
her wings by the blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
one of the bystanders.  
 
Zeal should not outrun discretion.  
 

The Raven and the Swan 
 
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same
beautiful plumage.  Supposing that the Swan's splendid white
color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam, the
Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his
living, and took up residence in the lakes and pools.  But
cleansing his feathers as often as he would, he could not change
their color, while through want of food he perished.  
 
Change of habit cannot alter Nature.  
 

The Goat and the Goatherd 
 
A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat to his flock. 
He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no
attention to the summons.  At last the Goatherd threw a stone,
and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master. 
The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak
though I be silent."  
 
Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.  
 

The Miser 
 
A MISER sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he
buried in a hole in the ground by the side of an old wall and
went to look at daily.  One of his workmen observed his frequent
visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements.  He soon
discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down,
came to the lump of gold, and stole it.  The Miser, on his next
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to
make loud lamentations.  A neighbor, seeing him overcome with
grief and learning the cause, said, "Pray do not grieve so; but
go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
gold is still lying there.  It will do you quite the same
service; for when the gold was there, you had it not, as you did
not make the slightest use of it."  
 

The Sick Lion 
 
A LION, unable from old age and infirmities to provide himself
with food by force, resolved to do so by artifice.  He returned
to his den, and lying down there, pretended to be sick, taking
care that his sickness should be publicly known.  The beasts
expressed their sorrow, and came one by one to his den, where the
Lion devoured them.  After many of the beasts had thus
disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself
to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful
distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling,"
replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter
within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I
notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but
I see no trace of any returning."  
 
He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.  
 

The Horse and Groom 
 
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his own profit.  "Alas!"  said the Horse, "if you really wish me
to be in good condition, you should groom me less, and feed me
more."  
 

The Ass and the Lapdog 
 
A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The
Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat,
just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was
a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and
seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to
eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding
the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and
contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at
last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his
master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and
frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump
about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the
table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then
attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The
servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of
their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his
stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned
to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have
brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to
labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day
like that useless little Lapdog!"  
 

The Lioness 
 
A CONTROVERSY prevailed among the beasts of the field as to which
of the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
greatest number of whelps at a birth.  They rushed clamorously
into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of her the
settlement of the dispute.  "And you," they said, "how many sons
have you at a birth?'  The Lioness laughed at them, and said:
"Why! I have only one; but that one is altogether a thoroughbred
Lion."  
 
The value is in the worth, not in the number.  
 

The Boasting Traveler 
 
A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on
returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic
feats he had performed in the different places he had visited. 
Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had
leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap
anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons 
who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of 
the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if 
this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this 
to be Rhodes, and leap for us."  
 

The Cat and the Cock 
 
A CAT caught a Cock, and pondered how he might find a reasonable
excuse for eating him.  He accused him of being a nuisance to men
by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them to sleep. 
The Cock defended himself by saying that he did this for the
benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors. 
The Cat replied, "Although you abound in specious apologies, I
shall not remain supperless"; and he made a meal of him.  
 

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat 
 
A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard with a Goat and a Sheep. 
On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of him, he grunted
and squeaked and resisted violently.  The Sheep and the Goat
complained of his distressing cries, saying, "He often handles
us, and we do not cry out."  To this the Pig replied, "Your
handling and mine are very different things.  He catches you only
for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for my very
life."  
 

The Boy and the Filberts 
 
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped
as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out
his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to
withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his
disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half
the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."  
 
Do not attempt too much at once.  
 

The Lion in Love 
 
A LION demanded the daughter of a woodcutter in marriage.  The
Father, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.  He
expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of his
daughter on one condition:  that he should allow him to extract
his teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was fearfully
afraid of both.  The Lion cheerfully assented to the proposal. 
But when the toothless, clawless Lion returned to repeat his
request, the Woodman, no longer afraid, set upon him with his
club, and drove him away into the forest.  
 

The Laborer and the Snake 
 
A SNAKE, having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage,
inflicted a mortal bite on the Cottager's infant son.  Grieving
over his loss, the Father resolved to kill the Snake.  The next
day, when it came out of its hole for food, he took up his axe,
but by swinging too hastily, missed its head and cut off only the
end of its tail.  After some time the Cottager, afraid that the
Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed
some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing,
said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever
I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you
see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."  
 
No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused
the injury.  
 

The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing 
 
ONCE UPON A TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in
order to secure food more easily.  Encased in the skin of a
sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving the shepherd by his
costume.  In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the
fold; the gate was closed, and the entrance made thoroughly
secure.  But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night
to obtain meat for the next day, mistakenly caught up the Wolf
instead of a sheep, and killed him instantly.  
 
Harm seek.  harm find.  
 

The Ass and the Mule 
 
A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and
a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along
the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to
ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more
than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of
a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule
paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards
fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in
so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load
carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all
placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule,
groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated
according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist
the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing,
together with his burden, himself as well."  
 

The Frogs Asking for a King 
 
THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent
ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their
simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs
were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid
themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they
realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the
top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think
themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler,
and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set
over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern
them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent
yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still
another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints,
sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there
were none left to croak upon the lake.  
 

The Boys and the Frogs 
 
SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the
water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of
them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water,
cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to
us."  
 

The Sick Stag 
 
A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of its pasture-ground. 
His companions came in great numbers to inquire after his health,
and each one helped himself to a share of the food which had been
placed for his use; so that he died, not from his sickness, but
from the failure of the means of living.  
 
Evil companions bring more hurt than profit.  
 

The Salt Merchant and His Ass 
 
A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road
home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step,
fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably
lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his
steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt
than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down
on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the
weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he
had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick
and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a
cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the
fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the
sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. 
And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his
back a double burden.  
 

The Oxen and the Butchers 
 
THE OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the Butchers, who
practiced a trade destructive to their race.  They assembled on a
certain day to carry out their purpose, and sharpened their horns
for the contest.  But one of them who was exceedingly old (for
many a field had he plowed) thus spoke:  "These Butchers, it is
true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands, and with
no unnecessary pain.  If we get rid of them, we shall fall into
the hands of unskillful operators, and thus suffer a double
death:  for you may be assured, that though all the Butchers
should perish, yet will men never want beef."  
 
Do not be in a hurry to change one evil for another.  
 

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox 
 
A LION, fatigued by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast asleep
in his den.  A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke him from
his slumbers.  He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and
searched every corner of his den to find the Mouse.  A Fox seeing
him said:  "A fine Lion you are, to be frightened of a Mouse."
"'Tis not the Mouse I fear," said the Lion; "I resent his
familiarity and ill-breeding."  
 
Little liberties are great offenses.  
 

The Vain Jackdaw 
 
JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign over the
birds, and made proclamation that on a certain day they should
all present themselves before him, when he would himself choose
the most beautiful among them to be king.  The Jackdaw, knowing
his own ugliness, searched through the woods and fields, and
collected the feathers which had fallen from the wings of his
companions, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping
thereby to make himself the most beautiful of all.  When the
appointed day arrived, and the birds had assembled before
Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his appearance in his many
feathered finery.  But when Jupiter proposed to make him king
because of the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly
protested, and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving
the Jackdaw nothing but a Jackdaw.  
 

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats 
 
A GOATHERD, driving his flock from their pasture at eventide,
found some Wild Goats mingled among them, and shut them up
together with his own for the night.  The next day it snowed very
hard, so that he could not take the herd to their usual feeding
places, but was obliged to keep them in the fold.  He gave his
own goats just sufficient food to keep them alive, but fed the
strangers more abundantly in the hope of enticing them to stay
with him and of making them his own.  When the thaw set in, he
led them all out to feed, and the Wild Goats scampered away as
fast as they could to the mountains.  The Goatherd scolded them
for their ingratitude in leaving him, when during the storm he
had taken more care of them than of his own herd.  One of them,
turning about, said to him:  "That is the very reason why we are
so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the
Goats you have had so long, it is plain also that if others came
after us, you would in the same manner prefer them to ourselves."

 
Old friends cannot with impunity be sacrificed for new ones.  
 

The Mischievous Dog 
 
A DOG used to run up quietly to the heels of everyone he met, and
to bite them without notice.  His master suspended a bell about
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence
wherever he went.  Thinking it a mark of distinction, the Dog
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the
marketplace.  One day an old hound said to him:  Why do you make
such an exhibition of yourself? That bell that you carry is not,
believe me, any order of merit, but on the contrary a mark of
disgrace, a public notice to all men to avoid you as an ill
mannered dog."  
 
Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.  
 

The Fox Who Had Lost His Tail 
 
A FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail. 
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all the other
Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus making
up for his own deprivation.  He assembled a good many Foxes and
publicly advised them to cut off their tails, saying that they
would not only look much better without them, but that they would
get rid of the weight of the brush, which was a very great
inconvenience.  One of them interrupting him said, "If you had
not yourself lost your tail, my friend, you would not thus
counsel us."  
 

The Boy and the Nettles 
 
A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother,
saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it
gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The
next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be
soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."  
 
Whatever you do, do with all your might.  
 

The Man and His Two Sweethearts 
 
A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, whose hair had begun to turn gray, courted two
women at the same time.  One of them was young, and the other
well advanced in years.  The elder woman, ashamed to be courted
by a man younger than herself, made a point, whenever her admirer
visited her, to pull out some portion of his black hairs.  The
younger, on the contrary, not wishing to become the wife of an
old man, was equally zealous in removing every gray hair she
could find.  Thus it came to pass that between them both he very
soon found that he had not a hair left on his head.  
 
Those who seek to please everybody please nobody.  
 

The Astronomer 
 
AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One
evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole
attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep
well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and
cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning
what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to
pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on
earth?'  
 

The Wolves and the Sheep 
 
"WHY SHOULD there always be this fear and slaughter between us?"
said the Wolves to the Sheep.  "Those evil-disposed Dogs have
much to answer for.  They always bark whenever we approach you
and attack us before we have done any harm.  If you would only
dismiss them from your heels, there might soon be treaties of
peace and reconciliation between us."  The Sheep, poor silly
creatures, were easily beguiled and dismissed the Dogs, whereupon
the Wolves destroyed the unguarded flock at their own pleasure.  
 

The Old Woman and the Physician 
 
AN OLD WOMAN having lost the use of her eyes, called in a
Physician to heal them, and made this bargain with him in the
presence of witnesses:  that if he should cure her blindness, he
should receive from her a sum of money; but if her infirmity
remained, she should give him nothing.  This agreement being
made, the Physician, time after time, applied his salve to her
eyes, and on every visit took something away, stealing all her
property little by little.  And when he had got all she had, he
healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman,
when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her
house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his
claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge. 
The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here
speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a
sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued
blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am
healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when
I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and
valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my
blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."  
 

The Fighting Cocks and the Eagle 
 
TWO GAME COCKS were fiercely fighting for the mastery of the
farmyard.  One at last put the other to flight.  The vanquished
Cock skulked away and hid himself in a quiet corner, while the
conqueror, flying up to a high wall, flapped his wings and crowed
exultingly with all his might.  An Eagle sailing through the air
pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The
vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled
henceforth with undisputed mastery.  
 
Pride goes before destruction.  
 

The Charger and the Miller 
 
A CHARGER, feeling the infirmities of age, was sent to work in a
mill instead of going out to battle.  But when he was compelled
to grind instead of serving in the wars, he bewailed his change
of fortune and called to mind his former state, saying, "Ah!
Miller, I had indeed to go campaigning before, but I was barbed
from counter to tail, and a man went along to groom me; and now I
cannot understand what ailed me to prefer the mill before the
battle."  "Forbear," said the Miller to him, "harping on what was
of yore, for it is the common lot of mortals to sustain the ups
and downs of fortune."  
 

The Fox and the Monkey 
 
A MONKEY once danced in an assembly of the Beasts, and so pleased
them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A
Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a
trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that
she had found a store, but had not used it  e had kept it for him
as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold
of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the
trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into
the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind
as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"
 

The Horse and His Rider 
 
A HORSE SOLDIER took the utmost pains with his charger.  As long
as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all
emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when
the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him
carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish
drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however,
and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier
put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being
clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway
under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his
master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have
transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect
that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'  
 

The Belly and the Members 
 
THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said,
"Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your
wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy
yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out
their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The
whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet,
mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.  
 

The Vine and the Goat 
 
A VINE was luxuriant in the time of vintage with leaves and
grapes.  A Goat, passing by, nibbled its young tendrils and its
leaves.  The Vine addressed him and said:  "Why do you thus injure
me without a cause, and crop my leaves? Is there no young grass
left? But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for
if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I
shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a
victim to the sacrifice."  
 

Jupiter and the Monkey 
 
JUPITER ISSUED a proclamation to all the beasts of the forest and
promised a royal reward to the one whose offspring should be
deemed the handsomest.  The Monkey came with the rest and
presented, with all a mother's tenderness, a flat-nosed,
hairless, ill-featured young Monkey as a candidate for the
promised reward.  A general laugh saluted her on the presentation
of her son.  She resolutely said, "I know not whether Jupiter
will allot the prize to my son, but this I do know, that he is at
least in the eyes of me his mother, the dearest, handsomest, and
most beautiful of all."  
 

The Widow and Her Little Maidens 
 
A WIDOW who was fond of cleaning had two little maidens to wait
on her.  She was in the habit of waking them early in the
morning, at cockcrow.  The maidens, aggravated by such excessive
labor, resolved to kill the cock who roused their mistress so
early.  When they had done this, they found that they had only
prepared for themselves greater troubles, for their mistress, no
longer hearing the hour from the cock, woke them up to their work
in the middle of the night.  
 

The Shepherd's Boy and the Wolf 
 
A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village,
brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out,
"Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at
them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last. 
The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of
terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the
sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any
assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure
lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.  
 
There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.  
 

The Cat and the Birds 
 
A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing
dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag
of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He
knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did,
saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for
them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and
shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away,
and leave us as we are."  
 

The Kid and the Wolf 
 
A KID standing on the roof of a house, out of harm's way, saw a
Wolf passing by and immediately began to taunt and revile him. 
The Wolf, looking up, said, "Sirrah! I hear thee:  yet it is not
thou who mockest me, but the roof on which thou art standing."  
 
Time and place often give the advantage to the weak over the
strong.  
 

The Ox and the Frog 
 
AN OX drinking at a pool trod on a brood of young frogs and
crushed one of them to death.  The Mother coming up, and missing
one of her sons, inquired of his brothers what had become of him. 
"He is dead, dear Mother; for just now a very huge beast with
four great feet came to the pool and crushed him to death with
his cloven heel."  The Frog, puffing herself out, inquired, "if
the beast was as big as that in size."  "Cease, Mother, to puff
yourself out," said her son, "and do not be angry; for you would,
I assure you, sooner burst than successfully imitate the hugeness
of that monster."  
 

The Shepherd and the Wolf 
 
 A SHEPHERD once found the whelp of a Wolf and brought it up, and
after a while taught it to steal lambs from the neighboring
flocks.  The Wolf, having shown himself an apt pupil, said to the
Shepherd, "Since you have taught me to steal, you must keep a
sharp lookout, or you will lose some of your own flock."  
 

The Father and His Two Daughters 
 
A MAN had two daughters, the one married to a gardener, and the
other to a tile-maker.  After a time he went to the daughter who
had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all
things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with
me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of
rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long
after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and
likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for
nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may
continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks
might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain,
and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my
wishes?'  
 

The Farmer and His Sons 
 
A FATHER, being on the point of death, wished to be sure that his
sons would give the same attention to his farm as he himself had
given it.  He called them to his bedside and said, "My sons,
there is a great treasure hid in one of my vineyards."  The sons,
after his death, took their spades and mattocks and carefully dug
over every portion of their land.  They found no treasure, but
the vines repaid their labor by an extraordinary and
superabundant crop.  
 

The Crab and Its Mother 
 
A CRAB said to her son, "Why do you walk so one-sided, my child?
It is far more becoming to go straight forward."  The young Crab
replied:  "Quite true, dear Mother; and if you will show me the
straight way, I will promise to walk in it."  The Mother tried in
vain, and submitted without remonstrance to the reproof of her
child.  
 
Example is more powerful than precept.  
 

The Heifer and the Ox 
 
A HEIFER saw an Ox hard at work harnessed to a plow, and
tormented him with reflections on his unhappy fate in being
compelled to labor.  Shortly afterwards, at the harvest festival,
the owner released the Ox from his yoke, but bound the Heifer
with cords and led him away to the altar to be slain in honor of
the occasion.  The Ox saw what was being done, and said with a
smile to the Heifer:  "For this you were allowed to live in
idleness, because you were presently to be sacrificed."  
 

The Swallow, the Serpent, and the Court of Justice 
 
A SWALLOW, returning from abroad and especially fond of dwelling
with men, built herself a nest in the wall of a Court of Justice
and there hatched seven young birds.  A Serpent gliding past the
nest from its hole in the wall ate up the young unfledged
nestlings.  The Swallow, finding her nest empty, lamented greatly
and exclaimed:  "Woe to me a stranger! that in this place where
all others' rights are protected, I alone should suffer wrong."  
 

The Thief and His Mother 
 
A BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took
it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him,
but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to
her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to
adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At
last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound
behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His
Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in
sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to
my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly
seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother
upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if
you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that
lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus
led to a disgraceful death."  
 

The Old Man and Death 
 
AN OLD MAN was employed in cutting wood in the forest, and, in
carrying the faggots to the city for sale one day, became very
wearied with his long journey.  He sat down by the wayside, and
throwing down his load, besought "Death" to come.  "Death"
immediately appeared in answer to his summons and asked for what
reason he had called him.  The Old Man hurriedly replied, "That,
lifting up the load, you may place it again upon my shoulders."  
 

The Fir-Tree and the Bramble 
 
A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for
nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses."
The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call
to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you
would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a
Fir-Tree."  
 
Better poverty without care, than riches with.  
 

The Mouse, the Frog, and the Hawk 
 
A MOUSE who always lived on the land, by an unlucky chance formed
an intimate acquaintance with a Frog, who lived for the most part
in the water.  The Frog, one day intent on mischief, bound the
foot of the Mouse tightly to his own.  Thus joined together, the
Frog first of all led his friend the Mouse to the meadow where
they were accustomed to find their food.  After this, he
gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until
reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the
Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam
croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse
was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about
on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed
it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The
Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also
carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.  
 
Harm hatch, harm catch.  
 

The Man Bitten by a Dog 
 
A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone
who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he
wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and
dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the
Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this
advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I
should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."  
 
Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of
injuring you.  
 

The Two Pots 
 
A RIVER carried down in its stream two Pots, one made of
earthenware and the other of brass.  The Earthen Pot said to the
Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for
if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces,
and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."  
 
Equals make the best friends.  
 

The Wolf and the Sheep 
 
A WOLF, sorely wounded and bitten by dogs, lay sick and maimed in
his lair.  Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was
passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing
close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I
will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the
Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless
make me provide the meat also."  
 
Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.  
 

The Aethiop 
 
THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of
his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his
former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means
of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The
servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or
complexion.  
 
What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.  
 

The Fisherman and His Nets 
 
A FISHERMAN, engaged in his calling, made a very successful cast
and captured a great haul of fish.  He managed by a skillful
handling of his net to retain all the large fish and to draw them
to the shore; but he could not prevent the smaller fish from
falling back through the meshes of the net into the sea.  
 

The Huntsman and the Fisherman 
 
A HUNTSMAN, returning with his dogs from the field, fell in by
chance with a Fisherman who was bringing home a basket well laden
with fish.  The Huntsman wished to have the fish, and their owner
experienced an equal longing for the contents of the game-bag. 
They quickly agreed to exchange the produce of their day's sport. 
Each was so well pleased with his bargain that they made for some
time the same exchange day after day.  Finally a neighbor said to
them, "If you go on in this way, you will soon destroy by
frequent use the pleasure of your exchange, and each will again
wish to retain the fruits of his own sport."  
 
Abstain and enjoy.  
 

The Old Woman and the Wine-Jar 
 
AN OLD WOMAN found an empty jar which had lately been full of
prime old wine and which still retained the fragrant smell of its
former contents.  She greedily placed it several times to her
nose, and drawing it backwards and forwards said, "O most
delicious! How nice must the Wine itself have been, when it
leaves behind in the very vessel which contained it so sweet a
perfume!"  
 
The memory of a good deed lives.  
 

The Fox and the Crow 
 
A CROW having stolen a bit of meat, perched in a tree and held it
in her beak.  A Fox, seeing this, longed to possess the meat
himself, and by a wily stratagem succeeded.  "How handsome is the
Crow," he exclaimed, in the beauty of her shape and in the
fairness of her complexion! Oh, if her voice were only equal to
her beauty, she would deservedly be considered the Queen of
Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute
the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped
the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the
Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is
wanting."  
 

The Two Dogs 
 
A MAN had two dogs:  a Hound, trained to assist him in his sports,
and a Housedog, taught to watch the house.  When he returned home
after a good day's sport, he always gave the Housedog a large
share of his spoil.  The Hound, feeling much aggrieved at this,
reproached his companion, saying, "It is very hard to have all
this labor, while you, who do not assist in the chase, luxuriate
on the fruits of my exertions."  The Housedog replied, "Do not
blame me, my friend, but find fault with the master, who has not
taught me to labor, but to depend for subsistence on the labor of
others."  
 
Children are not to be blamed for the faults of their parents.  
 

The Stag in the Ox-Stall 
 
A STAG, roundly chased by the hounds and blinded by fear to the
danger he was running into, took shelter in a farmyard and hid
himself in a shed among the oxen.  An Ox gave him this kindly
warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own
accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your
enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I
am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of
effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman
came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the
farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and
failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his
safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had
kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again
answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not
over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has
as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your
life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself
entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been
properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is
there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw
for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the
cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he
spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the
straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag
should be seized and killed.  
 

The Hawk, the Kite, and the Pigeons 
 
THE PIGEONS, terrified by the appearance of a Kite, called upon
the Hawk to defend them.  He at once consented.  When they had
admitted him into the cote, they found that he made more havoc
and slew a larger number of them in one day than the Kite could
pounce upon in a whole year.  
 
Avoid a remedy that is worse than the disease.  
 

The Widow and the Sheep 
 
A CERTAIN poor widow had one solitary Sheep.  At shearing time,
wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him
herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece
she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why
do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the
wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill
me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is
the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."  
 
The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.  
 

The Wild Ass and the Lion 
 
A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might
capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion
agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild
Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they
had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion
undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it
into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said,
"because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you
in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source
of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and
set off as fast as you can."  
 
Might makes right.  
 

The Eagle and the Arrow 
 
AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare
whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle
from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him
mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered
his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had
been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he
exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my
own wings."  
 

The Sick Kite 
 
A KITE, sick unto death, said to his mother:  "O Mother! do not
mourn, but at once invoke the gods that my life may be
prolonged."  She replied, "Alas! my son, which of the gods do you
think will pity you? Is there one whom you have not outraged by
filching from their very altars a part of the sacrifice offered
up to them?'  
 
We must make friends in prosperity if we would have their help in
adversity.  
 

The Lion and the Dolphin 
 
A LION roaming by the seashore saw a Dolphin lift up its head out
of the waves, and suggested that they contract an alliance,
saying that of all the animals they ought to be the best friends,
since the one was the king of beasts on the earth, and the other
was the sovereign ruler of all the inhabitants of the ocean.  The
Dolphin gladly consented to this request.  Not long afterwards
the Lion had a combat with a wild bull, and called on the Dolphin
to help him.  The Dolphin, though quite willing to give him
assistance, was unable to do so, as he could not by any means
reach the land.  The Lion abused him as a traitor.  The Dolphin
replied, "Nay, my friend, blame not me, but Nature, which, while
giving me the sovereignty of the sea, has quite denied me the
power of living upon the land."  
 

The Lion and the Boar 
 
ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst
among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a
small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should
drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal
combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a
fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in
the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at
once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make
friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."  
 

The One-Eyed Doe 
 
A DOE blind in one eye was accustomed to graze as near to the
edge of the cliff as she possibly could, in the hope of securing
her greater safety.  She turned her sound eye towards the land
that she might get the earliest tidings of the approach of hunter
or hound, and her injured eye towards the sea, from whence she
entertained no anticipation of danger.  Some boatmen sailing by
saw her, and taking a successful aim, mortally wounded her. 
Yielding up her last breath, she gasped forth this lament:  "O
wretched creature that I am! to take such precaution against the
land, and after all to find this seashore, to which I had come
for safety, so much more perilous."  
 

The Shepherd and the Sea 
 
A SHEPHERD, keeping watch over his sheep near the shore, saw the
Sea very calm and smooth, and longed to make a voyage with a view
to commerce.  He sold all his flock, invested it in a cargo of
dates, and set sail.  But a very great tempest came on, and the
ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise
overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship. 
Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the
unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is
again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."  
 

The Ass, the Cock, and the Lion 
 
AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion,
desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to
spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice
the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and
the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his
trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to
attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run
no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and
tore him to pieces.  
 
False confidence often leads into danger.  
 

The Mice and the Weasels 
 
THE WEASELS and the Mice waged a perpetual war with each other,
in which much blood was shed.  The Weasels were always the
victors.  The Mice thought that the cause of their frequent
defeats was that they had no leaders set apart from the general
army to command them, and that they were exposed to dangers from
lack of discipline.  They therefore chose as leaders Mice that
were most renowned for their family descent, strength, and
counsel, as well as those most noted for their courage in the
fight, so that they might be better marshaled in battle array and
formed into troops, regiments, and battalions.  When all this was
done, and the army disciplined, and the herald Mouse had duly
proclaimed war by challenging the Weasels, the newly chosen
generals bound their heads with straws, that they might be more
conspicuous to all their troops.  Scarcely had the battle begun,
when a great rout overwhelmed the Mice, who scampered off as fast
as they could to their holes.  The generals, not being able to
get in on account of the ornaments on their heads, were all
captured and eaten by the Weasels.  
 
The more honor the more danger.  
 

The Mice in Council 
 
THE MICE summoned a council to decide how they might best devise
means of warning themselves of the approach of their great enemy
the Cat.  Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most
favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so
that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might
run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But
when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell
the Cat," there was no one found to do it.  
 

The Wolf and the Housedog 
 
A WOLF, meeting a big well-fed Mastiff with a wooden collar about
his neck asked him who it was that fed him so well and yet
compelled him to drag that heavy log about wherever he went. 
"The master," he replied.  Then said the Wolf:  "May no friend of
mine ever be in such a plight; for the weight of this chain is
enough to spoil the appetite."  
 

The Rivers and the Sea 
 
THE RIVERS joined together to complain to the Sea, saying, "Why
is it that when we flow into your tides so potable and sweet, you
work in us such a change, and make us salty and unfit to drink?"
The Sea, perceiving that they intended to throw the blame on him,
said, "Pray cease to flow into me, and then you will not be made
briny."  
 

The Playful Ass 
 
AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about
there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and
quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden
cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing
yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you
very great amusement."  
 

The Three Tradesmen 
 
A GREAT CITY was besieged, and its inhabitants were called
together to consider the best means of protecting it from the
enemy.  A Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording
the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with
equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of
defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ
from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to
a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."  
 
Every man for himself.  
 

The Master and His Dogs 
 
A CERTAIN MAN, detained by a storm in his country house, first of
all killed his sheep, and then his goats, for the maintenance of
his household.  The storm still continuing, he was obliged to
slaughter his yoke oxen for food.  On seeing this, his Dogs took
counsel together, and said, "It is time for us to be off, for if
the master spare not his oxen, who work for his gain, how can we
expect him to spare us?'  
 
He is not to be trusted as a friend who mistreats his own family. 

 
The Wolf and the Shepherds 
 
A WOLF, passing by, saw some Shepherds in a hut eating a haunch
of mutton for their dinner.  Approaching them, he said, "What a
clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"  
 

The Dolphins, the Whales, and the Sprat 
 
THE DOLPHINS and Whales waged a fierce war with each other.  When
the battle was at its height, a Sprat lifted its head out of the
waves and said that he would reconcile their differences if they
would accept him as an umpire.  One of the Dolphins replied, "We
would far rather be destroyed in our battle with each other than
admit any interference from you in our affairs."  
 

The Ass Carrying the Image 
 
AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden
Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along,
the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass,
thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for
himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused
to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his
whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse
dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an
Ass."  
 
They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to
others.  
 

The Two Travelers and the Axe 
 
TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe
that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my
friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found
an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the
axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are
undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of
speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now. 
Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."  
 
He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.  
 

The Old Lion 
 
A LION, worn out with years and powerless from disease, lay on
the ground at the point of death.  A Boar rushed upon him, and
avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury. 
Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he
were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be
assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his
heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the
insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such
treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a
double death."  
 

The Old Hound 
 
A HOUND, who in the days of his youth and strength had never
yielded to any beast of the forest, encountered in his old age a
boar in the chase.  He seized him boldly by the ear, but could
not retain his hold because of the decay of his teeth, so that
the boar escaped.  His master, quickly coming up, was very much
disappointed, and fiercely abused the dog.  The Hound looked up
and said, "It was not my fault.  master:  my spirit was as good as
ever, but I could not help my infirmities.  I rather deserve to
be praised for what I have been, than to be blamed for what I
am."  
 

The Bee and Jupiter 
 
A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to
Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs. 
Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give
whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying,
"Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach
to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased,
for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request
because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall
have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life. 
For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make,
and then you will die from the loss of it."  
 
Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.  
 

The Milk-Woman and Her Pail 
 
A FARMER'S daughter was carrying her Pail of milk from the field
to the farmhouse, when she fell a-musing.  "The money for which
this milk will be sold, will buy at least three hundred eggs. 
The eggs, allowing for all mishaps, will produce two hundred and
fifty chickens.  The chickens will become ready for the market
when poultry will fetch the highest price, so that by the end of
the year I shall have money enough from my share to buy a new
gown.  In this dress I will go to the Christmas parties, where
all the young fellows will propose to me, but I will toss my head
and refuse them every one."  At this moment she tossed her head in
unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the
ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.  
 

The Seaside Travelers 
 
SOME TRAVELERS, journeying along the seashore, climbed to the
summit of a tall cliff, and looking over the sea, saw in the
distance what they thought was a large ship.  They waited in the
hope of seeing it enter the harbor, but as the object on which
they looked was driven nearer to shore by the wind, they found
that it could at the most be a small boat, and not a ship.  When
however it reached the beach, they discovered that it was only a
large faggot of sticks, and one of them said to his companions,
"We have waited for no purpose, for after all there is nothing to
see but a load of wood."  
 
Our mere anticipations of life outrun its realities.  
 

The Brazier and His Dog 
 
A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his
master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at
his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to
dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as
if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day,
pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You
wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am
hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to
eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do
you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that
none but those who work are entitled to eat?'  
 

The Ass and His Shadow 
 
A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The
day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the
Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under
the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one,
and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a
violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the
right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the
Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had,
with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel
proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass
galloped off.  
 
In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.  
 

The Ass and His Masters 
 
AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food
and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from
his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter,
after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to
be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had
heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he
petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him
that it would be the last time that he could grant his request,
ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had
fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation,
said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been
either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the
other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my
present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and
make me useful to him."  
 

The Oak and the Reeds 
 
A VERY LARGE OAK was uprooted by the wind and thrown across a
stream.  It fell among some Reeds, which it thus addressed:  "I
wonder how you, who are so light and weak, are not entirely
crushed by these strong winds."  They replied, "You fight and
contend with the wind, and consequently you are destroyed; while
we on the contrary bend before the least breath of air, and
therefore remain unbroken, and escape."  
 
Stoop to conquer.  
 

The Fisherman and the Little Fish 
 
A FISHERMAN who lived on the produce of his nets, one day caught
a single small Fish as the result of his day's labor.  The Fish,
panting convulsively, thus entreated for his life:  "O Sir, what
good can I be to you, and how little am I worth? I am not yet
come to my full size.  Pray spare my life, and put me back into
the sea.  I shall soon become a large fish fit for the tables of
the rich, and then you can catch me again, and make a handsome
profit of me."  The Fisherman replied, "I should indeed be a very
simple fellow if, for the chance of a greater uncertain profit, I
were to forego my present certain gain."  
 

The Hunter and the Woodman 
 
A HUNTER, not very bold, was searching for the tracks of a Lion. 
He asked a man felling oaks in the forest if he had seen any
marks of his footsteps or knew where his lair was.  "I will,"
said the man, "at once show you the Lion himself."  The Hunter,
turning very pale and chattering with his teeth from fear,
replied, "No, thank you.  I did not ask that; it is his track
only I am in search of, not the Lion himself."  
 
The hero is brave in deeds as well as words.  
 

The Wild Boar and the Fox 
 
A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the
trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his
teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman
or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do
to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be
using them."  
 

The Lion in a Farmyard 
 
A LION entered a farmyard.  The Farmer, wishing to catch him,
shut the gate.  When the Lion found that he could not escape, he
flew upon the sheep and killed them, and then attacked the oxen. 
The Farmer, beginning to be alarmed for his own safety, opened
the gate and released the Lion.  On his departure the Farmer
grievously lamented the destruction of his sheep and oxen, but
his wife, who had been a spectator to all that took place, said,
"On my word, you are rightly served, for how could you for a
moment think of shutting up a Lion along with you in your
farmyard when you know that you shake in your shoes if you only
hear his roar at a distance?'  
 

Mercury and the Sculptor 
 
MERCURY ONCE DETERMINED to learn in what esteem he was held among
mortals.  For this purpose he assumed the character of a man and
visited in this disguise a Sculptor's studio having looked at
various statues, he demanded the price of two figures of Jupiter
and Juno.  When the sum at which they were valued was named, he
pointed to a figure of himself, saying to the Sculptor, "You will
certainly want much more for this, as it is the statue of the
Messenger of the Gods, and author of all your gain."  The
Sculptor replied, "Well, if you will buy these, I'll fling you
that into the bargain."  
 

The Swan and the Goose 
 
A CERTAIN rich man bought in the market a Goose and a Swan.  He
fed the one for his table and kept the other for the sake of its
song.  When the time came for killing the Goose, the cook went to
get him at night, when it was dark, and he was not able to
distinguish one bird from the other.  By mistake he caught the
Swan instead of the Goose.  The Swan, threatened with death,
burst forth into song and thus made himself known by his voice,
and preserved his life by his melody.  
 

The Swollen Fox 
 
A VERY HUNGRY FOX, seeing some bread and meat left by shepherds
in the hollow of an oak, crept into the hole and made a hearty
meal.  When he finished, he was so full that he was not able to
get out, and began to groan and lament his fate.  Another Fox
passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of
his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him,
"Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become
such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get
out."  
 

The Fox and the Woodcutter 
 
A FOX, running before the hounds, came across a Woodcutter
felling an oak and begged him to show him a safe hiding-place. 
The Woodcutter advised him to take shelter in his own hut, so the
Fox crept in and hid himself in a corner.  The huntsman soon came
up with his hounds and inquired of the Woodcutter if he had seen
the Fox.  He declared that he had not seen him, and yet pointed,
all the time he was speaking, to the hut where the Fox lay
hidden.  The huntsman took no notice of the signs, but believing
his word, hastened forward in the chase.  As soon as they were
well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the
Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying,
"You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you
leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I
should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good
as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your
speech."  
 

The Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock 
 
A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a
friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as
he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which
he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his
life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your
nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of
answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined
to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But
the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you
kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn? 
Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time
to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say
is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But
my friend and I must have our dinners."  
 
Necessity knows no law.  
 

The Monkey and the Fishermen 
 
A MONKEY perched upon a lofty tree saw some Fishermen casting
their nets into a river, and narrowly watched their proceedings. 
The Fishermen after a while gave up fishing, and on going home to
dinner left their nets upon the bank.  The Monkey, who is the
most imitative of animals, descended from the treetop and
endeavored to do as they had done.  Having handled the net, he
threw it into the river, but became tangled in the meshes and
drowned.  With his last breath he said to himself, "I am rightly
served; for what business had I who had never handled a net to
try and catch fish?'  
 

The Flea and the Wrestler 
 
A FLEA settled upon the bare foot of a Wrestler and bit him,
causing the man to call loudly upon Hercules for help.  When the
Flea a second time hopped upon his foot, he groaned and said, "O
Hercules! if you will not help me against a Flea, how can I hope
for your assistance against greater antagonists?'  
 

The Two Frogs 
 
TWO FROGS dwelt in the same pool.  When the pool dried up under
the summer's heat, they left it and set out together for another
home.  As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply
supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said
to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it
will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with
greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can
we get out again from so great a depth?'  
 
Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.  
 

The Cat and the Mice 
 
A CERTAIN HOUSE was overrun with Mice.  A Cat, discovering this,
made her way into it and began to catch and eat them one by one. 
Fearing for their lives, the Mice kept themselves close in their
holes.  The Cat was no longer able to get at them and perceived
that she must tempt them forth by some device.  For this purpose
she jumped upon a peg, and suspending herself from it, pretended
to be dead.  One of the Mice, peeping stealthily out, saw her and
said, "Ah, my good madam, even though you should turn into a
meal-bag, we will not come near you."  
 

The Lion, the Bear, and the Fox 
 
A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought
fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated
each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down
exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a
distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground
with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between
them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The
Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said,
"Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves
only to serve the turn of a Fox."  
 
It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another
all the profit.  
 

The Doe and the Lion 
 
A DOE hard pressed by hunters sought refuge in a cave belonging
to a Lion.  The Lion concealed himself on seeing her approach,
but when she was safe within the cave, sprang upon her and tore
her to pieces.  "Woe is me," exclaimed the Doe, "who have escaped
from man, only to throw myself into the mouth of a wild beast?'  
 
In avoiding one evil, care must be taken not to fall into
another.  
 

The Farmer and the Fox 
 
A FARMER, who bore a grudge against a Fox for robbing his poultry
yard, caught him at last, and being determined to take an ample
revenge, tied some rope well soaked in oil to his tail, and set
it on fire.  The Fox by a strange fatality rushed to the fields
of the Farmer who had captured him.  It was the time of the wheat
harvest; but the Farmer reaped nothing that year and returned
home grieving sorely.  
 

The Seagull and the Kite 
 
A SEAGULL having bolted down too large a fish, burst its deep
gullet-bag and lay down on the shore to die.  A Kite saw him and
exclaimed:  "You richly deserve your fate; for a bird of the air
has no business to seek its food from the sea."  
 
Every man should be content to mind his own business.  
 

The Philosopher, the Ants, and Mercury 
 
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel,
of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed
against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of
one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent
persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he
found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest
he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he
immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury
presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand,
said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the
dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner
treated these poor Ants?'  
 

The Mouse and the Bull 
 
A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to
capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though
the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he
could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep
outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his
flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull
rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At
which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There
are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do
mischief."  
 

The Lion and the Hare 
 
A LION came across a Hare, who was fast asleep.  He was just in
the act of seizing her, when a fine young Hart trotted by, and he
left the Hare to follow him.  The Hare, scared by the noise,
awoke and scudded away.  The Lion was unable after a long chase
to catch the Hart, and returned to feed upon the Hare.  On
finding that the Hare also had run off, he said, "I am rightly
served, for having let go of the food that I had in my hand for
the chance of obtaining more."  
 

The Peasant and the Eagle 
 
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap, and much admiring
the bird, set him free.  The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to
his deliverer, for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which
was not safe, he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a
bundle from his head.  When the Peasant rose in pursuit, the
Eagle let the bundle fall again.  Taking it up, the man returned
to the same place, to find that the wall under which he had been
sitting had fallen to pieces; and he marveled at the service
rendered him by the Eagle.  
 

The Image of Mercury and the Carpenter 
 
A VERY POOR MAN, a Carpenter by trade, had a wooden image of
Mercury, before which he made offerings day by day, and begged
the idol to make him rich, but in spite of his entreaties he
became poorer and poorer.  At last, being very angry, he took his
image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall. 
When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which
the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art
altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you
honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am
loaded with an abundance of riches."  
 

The Bull and the Goat 
 
A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds
had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in
the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly
addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of
you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon
let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a
Bull."  
 
It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in
distress.  
 

The Dancing Monkeys 
 
A PRINCE had some Monkeys trained to dance.  Being naturally
great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt
pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they
danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often
repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier,
bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and
threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts
forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys
instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their
robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing
spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of
the audience.  
 
The Fox and the Leopard 
 
THE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of
the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots
which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said,
"And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not
in body, but in mind."  
 

The Monkeys and Their Mother 
 
THE MONKEY, it is said, has two young ones at each birth.  The
Mother fondles one and nurtures it with the greatest affection
and care, but hates and neglects the other.  It happened once
that the young one which was caressed and loved was smothered by
the too great affection of the Mother, while the despised one was
nurtured and reared in spite of the neglect to which it was
exposed.  
 
The best intentions will not always ensure success.  
 

The Oaks and Jupiter 
 
THE OAKS presented a complaint to Jupiter, saying, "We bear for
no purpose the burden of life, as of all the trees that grow we
are the most continually in peril of the axe."  Jupiter made
answer:  "You have only to thank yourselves for the misfortunes to
which you are exposed:  for if you did not make such excellent
pillars and posts, and prove yourselves so serviceable to the
carpenters and the farmers, the axe would not so frequently be
laid to your roots."  
 

The Hare and the Hound 
 
A HOUND started a Hare from his lair, but after a long run, gave
up the chase.  A goat-herd seeing him stop, mocked him, saying
"The little one is the best runner of the two."  The Hound
replied, "You do not see the difference between us:  I was only
running for a dinner, but he for his life."  
 

The Traveler and Fortune 
 
A TRAVELER wearied from a long journey lay down, overcome with
fatigue, on the very brink of a deep well.  Just as he was about
to fall into the water, Dame Fortune, it is said, appeared to him
and waking him from his slumber thus addressed him:  "Good Sir,
pray wake up:  for if you fall into the well, the blame will be
thrown on me, and I shall get an ill name among mortals; for I
find that men are sure to impute their calamities to me, however
much by their own folly they have really brought them on
themselves."  
 
Everyone is more or less master of his own fate.  
 

The Bald Knight 
 
A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff
of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang
forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with
great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is
that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have
forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."  
 

The Shepherd and the Dog 
 
A SHEPHERD penning his sheep in the fold for the night was about
to shut up a wolf with them, when his Dog perceiving the wolf
said, "Master, how can you expect the sheep to be safe if you
admit a wolf into the fold?'  
 

The Lamp 
 
A LAMP, soaked with too much oil and flaring brightly, boasted
that it gave more light than the sun.  Then a sudden puff of wind
arose, and the Lamp was immediately extinguished.  Its owner lit
it again, and said:  "Boast no more, but henceforth be content to
give thy light in silence.  Know that not even the stars need to
be relit" 
 

The Lion, the Fox, and the Ass 
 
THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist
each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion
on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due
portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass
carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly
requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion,
bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he
requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The
Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and
left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said,
"Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of
division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned
it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."  
 
Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.  
 

The Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter 
 
A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his
horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of
her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a
distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have
reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have
been caused by you."  
 

The Oak and the Woodcutters 
 
THE WOODCUTTER cut down a Mountain Oak and split it in pieces,
making wedges of its own branches for dividing the trunk.  The
Oak said with a sigh, "I do not care about the blows of the axe
aimed at my roots, but I do grieve at being torn in pieces by
these wedges made from my own branches."  
 
Misfortunes springing from ourselves are the hardest to bear.  
 

The Hen and the Golden Eggs 
 
A COTTAGER and his wife had a Hen that laid a golden egg every
day.  They supposed that the Hen must contain a great lump of
gold in its inside, and in order to get the gold they killed it. 
Having done so, they found to their surprise that the Hen
differed in no respect from their other hens.  The foolish pair,
thus hoping to become rich all at once, deprived themselves of
the gain of which they were assured day by day.  
 

The Ass and the Frogs 
 
AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he
was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and
fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned
heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation,
and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we
do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"

 
Men often bear little grievances with less courage than they do
large misfortunes.  
 

The Crow and the Raven 
 
A CROW was jealous of the Raven, because he was considered a bird
of good omen and always attracted the attention of men, who noted
by his flight the good or evil course of future events.  Seeing
some travelers approaching, the Crow flew up into a tree, and
perching herself on one of the branches, cawed as loudly as she
could.  The travelers turned towards the sound and wondered what
it foreboded, when one of them said to his companion, "Let us
proceed on our journey, my friend, for it is only the caw of a
crow, and her cry, you know, is no omen."  
 
Those who assume a character which does not belong to them, only
make themselves ridiculous.  
 

The Trees and the Axe 
 
A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a
handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave
him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle
to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled
with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak,
lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said
to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we
had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have
retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."  
 

The Crab and the Fox 
 
A CRAB, forsaking the seashore, chose a neighboring green meadow
as its feeding ground.  A Fox came across him, and being very
hungry ate him up.  Just as he was on the point of being eaten,
the Crab said, "I well deserve my fate, for what business had I
on the land, when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for
the sea?'  
 
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness.  
 

The Woman and Her Hen 
 
A WOMAN possessed a Hen that gave her an egg every day.  She
often pondered how she might obtain two eggs daily instead of
one, and at last, to gain her purpose, determined to give the Hen
a double allowance of barley.  From that day the Hen became fat
and sleek, and never once laid another egg.  
 

The Ass and the Old Shepherd 
 
A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all
of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to
fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal
lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the
conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined
the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the
panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'  
 
In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name
of their master.  
 

The Kites and the Swans 
 
TEE KITES of olden times, as well as the Swans, had the privilege
of song.  But having heard the neigh of the horse, they were so
enchanted with the sound, that they tried to imitate it; and, in
trying to neigh, they forgot how to sing.  
 
The desire for imaginary benefits often involves the loss of
present blessings.  
 

The Wolves and the Sheepdogs 
 
THE WOLVES thus addressed the Sheepdogs:  "Why should you, who are
like us in so many things, not be entirely of one mind with us,
and live with us as brothers should? We differ from you in one
point only.  We live in freedom, but you bow down to and slave
for men, who in return for your services flog you with whips and
put collars on your necks.  They make you also guard their sheep,
and while they eat the mutton throw only the bones to you.  If
you will be persuaded by us, you will give us the sheep, and we
will enjoy them in common, till we all are surfeited."  The Dogs
listened favorably to these proposals, and, entering the den of
the Wolves, they were set upon and torn to pieces.  
 

The Hares and the Foxes 
 
THE HARES waged war with the Eagles, and called upon the Foxes to
help them.  They replied, "We would willingly have helped you, if
we had not known who you were, and with whom you were fighting."

Count the cost before you commit yourselves.  
 

The Bowman and Lion 
 
A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game,
but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion
alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out
an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that
from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail
thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox
who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not
to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in
vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide
the attack of the man himself?'  
 
Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.  
 

The Camel 
 
WHEN MAN first saw the Camel, he was so frightened at his vast
size that he ran away.  After a time, perceiving the meekness and
gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to
approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal
altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to
put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.  
 
Use serves to overcome dread.  
 

The Wasp and the Snake 
 
A WASP seated himself upon the head of a Snake and, striking him
unceasingly with his stings, wounded him to death.  The Snake,
being in great torment and not knowing how to rid himself of his
enemy, saw a wagon heavily laden with wood, and went and
purposely placed his head under the wheels, saying, "At least my
enemy and I shall perish together."  
 

The Dog and the Hare 
 
A HOUND having started a Hare on the hillside pursued her for
some distance, at one time biting her with his teeth as if he
would take her life, and at another fawning upon her, as if in
play with another dog.  The Hare said to him, "I wish you would
act sincerely by me, and show yourself in your true colors.  If
you are a friend, why do you bite me so hard? If an enemy, why do
you fawn on me?'  
 
No one can be a friend if you know not whether to trust or
distrust him.  
 

The Bull and the Calf 
 
A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through
a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up,
and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could
manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I
knew that way long before you were born."  
 

The Stag, the Wolf, and the Sheep 
 
A STAG asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, and said
that the Wolf would be his surety.  The Sheep, fearing some fraud
was intended, excused herself, saying, "The Wolf is accustomed to
seize what he wants and to run off; and you, too, can quickly
outstrip me in your rapid flight.  How then shall I be able to
find you, when the day of payment comes?'  
 
Two blacks do not make one white.  
 

The Peacock and the Crane 
 
A PEACOCK spreading its gorgeous tail mocked a Crane that passed
by, ridiculing the ashen hue of its plumage and saying, "I am
robed, like a king, in gold and purple and all the colors of the
rainbow; while you have not a bit of color on your wings."
"True," replied the Crane; "but I soar to the heights of heaven
and lift up my voice to the stars, while you walk below, like a
cock, among the birds of the dunghill."  
 
Fine feathers don't make fine birds.  
 

The Fox and the Hedgehog 
 
A FOX swimming across a rapid river was carried by the force of
the current into a very deep ravine, where he lay for a long time
very much bruised, sick, and unable to move.  A swarm of hungry
blood-sucking flies settled upon him.  A Hedgehog, passing by,
saw his anguish and inquired if he should drive away the flies
that were tormenting him.  "By no means," replied the Fox; "pray
do not molest them."  "How is this?'  said the Hedgehog; "do you
not want to be rid of them?'  "No," returned the Fox, "for these
flies which you see are full of blood, and sting me but little,
and if you rid me of these which are already satiated, others
more hungry will come in their place, and will drink up all the
blood I have left."  
 

The Eagle, the Cat, and the Wild Sow 
 
AN EAGLE made her nest at the top of a lofty oak; a Cat, having
found a convenient hole, moved into the middle of the trunk; and
a Wild Sow, with her young, took shelter in a hollow at its foot. 
The Cat cunningly resolved to destroy this chance-made colony. 
To carry out her design, she climbed to the nest of the Eagle,
and said, "Destruction is preparing for you, and for me too,
unfortunately.  The Wild Sow, whom you see daily digging up the
earth, wishes to uproot the oak, so she may on its fall seize our
families as food for her young."  Having thus frightened the Eagle
out of her senses, she crept down to the cave of the Sow, and
said, "Your children are in great danger; for as soon as you go
out with your litter to find food, the Eagle is prepared to
pounce upon one of your little pigs."  Having instilled these
fears into the Sow, she went and pretended to hide herself in the
hollow of the tree.  When night came she went forth with silent
foot and obtained food for herself and her kittens, but feigning
to be afraid, she kept a lookout all through the day.  Meanwhile,
the Eagle, full of fear of the Sow, sat still on the branches,
and the Sow, terrified by the Eagle, did not dare to go out from
her cave.  And thus they both, along with their families,
perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat
and her kittens.  
 

The Thief and the Innkeeper 
 
A THIEF hired a room in a tavern and stayed a while in the hope
of stealing something which should enable him to pay his
reckoning.  When he had waited some days in vain, he saw the
Innkeeper dressed in a new and handsome coat and sitting before
his door.  The Thief sat down beside him and talked with him.  As
the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at
the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do
you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but
first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to
pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor
whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a
judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do
know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a
wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit
of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The
Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became
greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away. 
The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop,
saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear
them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same
moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The
Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new
coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn
for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return
again to the inn.  
 
Every tale is not to be believed.  
 

The Mule 
 
A MULE, frolicsome from lack of work and from too much corn,
galloped about in a very extravagant manner, and said to himself:
"My father surely was a high-mettled racer, and I am his own
child in speed and spirit."  On the next day, being driven a long
journey, and feeling very wearied, he exclaimed in a disconsolate
tone:  "I must have made a mistake; my father, after all, could
have been only an ass."  
 

The Hart and the Vine 
 
A HART, hard pressed in the chase, hid himself beneath the large
leaves of a Vine.  The huntsmen, in their haste, overshot the
place of his concealment.  Supposing all danger to have passed,
the Hart began to nibble the tendrils of the Vine.  One of the
huntsmen, attracted by the rustling of the leaves, looked back,
and seeing the Hart, shot an arrow from his bow and struck it. 
The Hart, at the point of death, groaned:  "I am rightly served,
for I should not have maltreated the Vine that saved me."  
 

The Serpent and the Eagle 
 
A SERPENT and an Eagle were struggling with each other in deadly
conflict.  The Serpent had the advantage, and was about to
strangle the bird.  A countryman saw them, and running up, loosed
the coil of the Serpent and let the Eagle go free.  The Serpent,
irritated at the escape of his prey, injected his poison into the
drinking horn of the countryman.  The rustic, ignorant of his
danger, was about to drink, when the Eagle struck his hand with
his wing, and, seizing the drinking horn in his talons, carried
it aloft.  
 

The Crow and the Pitcher 
 
A CROW perishing with thirst saw a pitcher, and hoping to find
water, flew to it with delight.  When he reached it, he
discovered to his grief that it contained so little water that he
could not possibly get at it.  He tried everything he could think
of to reach the water, but all his efforts were in vain.  At last
he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them
one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the
water within his reach and thus saved his life.  
 
Necessity is the mother of invention.  
 

The Two Frogs 
 
TWO FROGS were neighbors.  One inhabited a deep pond, far removed
from public view; the other lived in a gully containing little
water, and traversed by a country road.  The Frog that lived in
the pond warned his friend to change his residence and entreated
him to come and live with him, saying that he would enjoy greater
safety from danger and more abundant food.  The other refused,
saying that he felt it so very hard to leave a place to which he
had become accustomed.  A few days afterwards a heavy wagon
passed through the gully and crushed him to death under its
wheels.  
 
A willful man will have his way to his own hurt.  
 

The Wolf and the Fox 
 
AT ONE TIME a very large and strong Wolf was born among the
wolves, who exceeded all his fellow-wolves in strength, size, and
swiftness, so that they unanimously decided to call him "Lion."
The Wolf, with a lack of sense proportioned to his enormous size,
thought that they gave him this name in earnest, and, leaving his
own race, consorted exclusively with the lions.  An old sly Fox,
seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you
do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the
size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are
definitely a wolf."  
 

The Walnut-Tree 
 
A WALNUT TREE standing by the roadside bore an abundant crop of
fruit.  For the sake of the nuts, the passers-by broke its
branches with stones and sticks.  The Walnut-Tree piteously
exclaimed, "O wretched me! that those whom I cheer with my fruit
should repay me with these painful requitals!"  
 

The Gnat and the Lion 
 
A GNAT came and said to a Lion, "I do not in the least fear you,
nor are you stronger than I am.  For in what does your strength
consist? You can scratch with your claws and bite with your teeth
an a woman in her quarrels.  I repeat that I am altogether more
powerful than you; and if you doubt it, let us fight and see who
will conquer."  The Gnat, having sounded his horn, fastened
himself upon the Lion and stung him on the nostrils and the parts
of the face devoid of hair.  While trying to crush him, the Lion
tore himself with his claws, until he punished himself severely. 
The Gnat thus prevailed over the Lion, and, buzzing about in a
song of triumph, flew away.  But shortly afterwards he became
entangled in the meshes of a cobweb and was eaten by a spider. 
He greatly lamented his fate, saying, "Woe is me! that I, who can
wage war successfully with the hugest beasts, should perish
myself from this spider, the most inconsiderable of insects!"  
 

The Monkey and the Dolphin 
 
A SAILOR, bound on a long voyage, took with him a Monkey to amuse
him while on shipboard.  As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a
violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his
Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A
Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing
him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and
placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to
the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of
land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an
Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was
descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The
Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor
of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered
that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. 
The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey
under the water and drowned him.  
 

The Jackdaw and the Doves 
 
A JACKDAW, seeing some Doves in a cote abundantly provided with
food, painted himself white and joined them in order to share
their plentiful maintenance.  The Doves, as long as he was
silent, supposed him to be one of themselves and admitted him to
their cote.  But when one day he forgot himself and began to
chatter, they discovered his true character and drove him forth,
pecking him with their beaks.  Failing to obtain food among the
Doves, he returned to the Jackdaws.  They too, not recognizing
him on account of his color.  expelled him from living with them. 
So desiring two ends, he obtained neither.  
 

The Horse and the Stag 
 
AT ONE TIME the Horse had the plain entirely to himself.  Then a
Stag intruded into his domain and shared his pasture.  The Horse,
desiring to revenge himself on the stranger, asked a man if he
were willing to help him in punishing the Stag.  The man replied
that if the Horse would receive a bit in his mouth and agree to
carry him, he would contrive effective weapons against the Stag. 
The Horse consented and allowed the man to mount him.  From that
hour he found that instead of obtaining revenge on the Stag, he
had enslaved himself to the service of man.  
 

The Kid and the Wolf 
 
A KID, returning without protection from the pasture, was pursued
by a Wolf.  Seeing he could not escape, he turned round, and
said:  "I know, friend Wolf, that I must be your prey, but before
I die I would ask of you one favor you will play me a tune to
which I may dance."  The Wolf complied, and while he was piping
and the Kid was dancing, some hounds hearing the sound ran up and
began chasing the Wolf.  Turning to the Kid, he said, "It is just
what I deserve; for I, who am only a butcher, should not have
turned piper to please you."  
 

The Prophet 
 
A WIZARD, sitting in the marketplace, was telling the fortunes of
the passers-by when a person ran up in great haste, and
announced to him that the doors of his house had been broken open
and that all his goods were being stolen.  He sighed heavily and
hastened away as fast as he could run.  A neighbor saw him
running and said, "Oh! you fellow there! you say you can foretell
the fortunes of others; how is it you did not foresee your own?'  
 

The Fox and the Monkey 
 
A FOX and a Monkey were traveling together on the same road.  As
they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments. 
"All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are
erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen
and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen
a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none
of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."  
 
A false tale often betrays itself.  
 

The Thief and the Housedog 
 
A THIEF came in the night to break into a house.  He brought with
him several slices of meat in order to pacify the Housedog, so
that he would not alarm his master by barking.  As the Thief
threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop
my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at
your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these
unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to
accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."  
 

The Man, the Horse, the Ox, and the Dog 
 
A HORSE, Ox, and Dog, driven to great straits by the cold, sought
shelter and protection from Man.  He received them kindly,
lighted a fire, and warmed them.  He let the Horse make free with
his oats, gave the Ox an abundance of hay, and fed the Dog with
meat from his own table.  Grateful for these favors, the animals
determined to repay him to the best of their ability.  For this
purpose, they divided the term of his life between them, and each
endowed one portion of it with the qualities which chiefly
characterized himself.  The Horse chose his earliest years and
gave them his own attributes:  hence every man is in his youth
impetuous, headstrong, and obstinate in maintaining his own
opinion.  The Ox took under his patronage the next term of life,
and therefore man in his middle age is fond of work, devoted to
labor, and resolute to amass wealth and to husband his resources. 
The end of life was reserved for the Dog, wherefore the old man
is often snappish, irritable, hard to please, and selfish,
tolerant only of his own household, but averse to strangers and
to all who do not administer to his comfort or to his
necessities.  
 

The Apes and the Two Travelers 
 
TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told
nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to
the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be
king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he
might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the
same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his
right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him,
as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he
signified that the two men should be brought before him, and
greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem
to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem
to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those
you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy
companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and
leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the
lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. 
On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a
reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded,
if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly
turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me
seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all
these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too."
The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him
over to the teeth and claws of his companions.  
 

The Wolf and the Shepherd 
 
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not
attempt to injure one of them.  The Shepherd at first stood on
his guard against him, as against an enemy, and kept a strict
watch over his movements.  But when the Wolf, day after day, kept
in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort
to seize them, the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian
of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it; and
when occasion called him one day into the city, he left the sheep
entirely in his charge.  The Wolf, now that he had the
opportunity, fell upon the sheep, and destroyed the greater part
of the flock.  When the Shepherd returned to find his flock
destroyed, he exclaimed:  "I have been rightly served; why did I
trust my sheep to a Wolf?'  
 

The Hares and the Lions 
 
THE HARES harangued the assembly, and argued that all should be
equal.  The Lions made this reply:  "Your words, O Hares! are
good; but they lack both claws and teeth such as we have."  
 

The Lark and Her Young Ones 
 
A LARK had made her nest in the early spring on the young green
wheat.  The brood had almost grown to their full strength and
attained the use of their wings and the full plumage of their
feathers, when the owner of the field, looking over his ripe
crop, said, "The time has come when I must ask all my neighbors
to help me with my harvest."  One of the young Larks heard his
speech and related it to his mother, inquiring of her to what
place they should move for safety.  "There is no occasion to move
yet, my son," she replied; "the man who only sends to his friends
to help him with his harvest is not really in earnest."  The owner
of the field came again a few days later and saw the wheat
shedding the grain from excess of ripeness.  He said, "I will
come myself tomorrow with my laborers, and with as many reapers
as I can hire, and will get in the harvest."  The Lark on hearing
these words said to her brood, "It is time now to be off, my
little ones, for the man is in earnest this time; he no longer
trusts his friends, but will reap the field himself."  
 
Self-help is the best help.  
 

The Fox and the Lion 
 
WHEN A FOX who had never yet seen a Lion, fell in with him by
chance for the first time in the forest, he was so frightened
that he nearly died with fear.  On meeting him for the second
time, he was still much alarmed, but not to the same extent as at
first.  On seeing him the third time, he so increased in boldness
that he went up to him and commenced a familiar conversation with
him.  
 
Acquaintance softens prejudices.  
 

The Weasel and the Mice 
 
A WEASEL, inactive from age and infirmities, was not able to
catch mice as he once did.  He therefore rolled himself in flour
and lay down in a dark corner.  A Mouse, supposing him to be
food, leaped upon him, and was instantly caught and squeezed to
death.  Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third,
and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped
many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of
his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper
just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"  
 

The Boy Bathing 
 
A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He
called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding
out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded
the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray
help me now and scold me afterwards."  
 
Counsel without help is useless.  
 

The Ass and the Wolf 
 
AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him,
and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up,
inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing
through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He
requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it
should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the
foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the
thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his
mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled,
said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of
healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'  
 

The Seller of Images 
 
A CERTAIN MAN made a wooden image of Mercury and offered it for
sale.  When no one appeared willing to buy it, in order to
attract purchasers, he cried out that he had the statue to sell
of a benefactor who bestowed wealth and helped to heap up riches. 
One of the bystanders said to him, "My good fellow, why do you
sell him, being such a one as you describe, when you may yourself
enjoy the good things he has to give?'  "Why," he replied, "I am
in need of immediate help, and he is wont to give his good gifts
very slowly."  
 

The Fox and the Grapes 
 
A FAMISHED FOX saw some clusters of ripe black grapes hanging
from a trellised vine.  She resorted to all her tricks to get at
them, but wearied herself in vain, for she could not reach them. 
At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying:
"The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."  
 

The Man and His Wife 
 
A MAN had a Wife who made herself hated by all the members of his
household.  Wishing to find out if she had the same effect on the
persons in her father's house, he made some excuse to send her
home on a visit to her father.  After a short time she returned,
and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had
treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me
looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by
those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and
return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you
by those with whom you passed the whole day!"  
 
Straws show how the wind blows.  
 

The Peacock and Juno 
 
THE PEACOCK made complaint to Juno that, while the nightingale
pleased every ear with his song, he himself no sooner opened his
mouth than he became a laughingstock to all who heard him.  The
Goddess, to console him, said, "But you far excel in beauty and
in size.  The splendor of the emerald shines in your neck and you
unfold a tail gorgeous with painted plumage."  "But for what
purpose have I," said the bird, "this dumb beauty so long as I am
surpassed in song?'   "The lot of each," replied Juno, "has been
assigned by the will of the Fates--to thee, beauty; to the eagle, 
strength; to the nightingale, song; to the raven, favorable, 
and to the crow, unfavorable auguries.  These are all contented 
with the endowments allotted to them."  
 

The Hawk and the Nightingale 
 
A NIGHTINGALE, sitting aloft upon an oak and singing according to
his wont, was seen by a Hawk who, being in need of food, swooped
down and seized him.  The Nightingale, about to lose his life,
earnestly begged the Hawk to let him go, saying that he was not
big enough to satisfy the hunger of a Hawk who, if he wanted
food, ought to pursue the larger birds.  The Hawk, interrupting
him, said:  "I should indeed have lost my senses if I should let
go food ready in my hand, for the sake of pursuing birds which
are not yet even within sight."  
 

The Dog, the Cock, and the Fox 
 
A DOG and a Cock being great friends, agreed to travel together. 
At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying
up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog
found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning
dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A
Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came
and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to
make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice. 
The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would
do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and
waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in."
When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught
him, and tore him to pieces.  
 

The Wolf and the Goat 
 
A WOLF saw a Goat feeding at the summit of a steep precipice,
where he had no chance of reaching her.  He called to her and
earnestly begged her to come lower down, lest she fall by some
mishap; and he added that the meadows lay where he was standing,
and that the herbage was most tender.  She replied, "No, my
friend, it is not for the pasture that you invite me, but for
yourself, who are in want of food."  
 

The Lion and the Bull 
 
A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to
attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to
ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have
slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and
partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your
company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in
the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage,
and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's
den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever
of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his
departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without
a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause
for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no
indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I
do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."

 

The Goat and the Ass 
 
A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on
account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully
you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another
carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to
be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass
listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much
bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He
bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once
killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.  
 

The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse 
 
A COUNTRY MOUSE invited a Town Mouse, an intimate friend, to pay
him a visit and partake of his country fare.  As they were on the
bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up
from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live
here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of
plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come
with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my
dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned
to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed
before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and,
last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The
Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good
cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his
own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone
opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they
could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by
squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when
someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard,
whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and
hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said
to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a
feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is
surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare
plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in
safety, and without fear."  
 

The Wolf, the Fox, and the Ape 
 
A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the
charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them. 
When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this
sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim;
and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly
deny."  
 
The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.  
 

The Fly and the Draught-Mule 
 
A FLY sat on the axle-tree of a chariot, and addressing the
Draught-Mule said, "How slow you are! Why do you not go faster?
See if I do not prick your neck with my sting."  The Draught-Mule
replied, "I do not heed your threats; I only care for him who
sits above you, and who quickens my pace with his whip, or holds
me back with the reins.  Away, therefore, with your insolence,
for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."  
 

The Fishermen 
 
SOME FISHERMEN were out trawling their nets.  Perceiving them to
be very heavy, they danced about for joy and supposed that they
had taken a large catch.  When they had dragged the nets to the
shore they found but few fish:  the nets were full of sand and
stones, and the men were beyond measure cast downso much at the
disappointment which had befallen them, but because they had
formed such very different expectations.  One of their company,
an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates, for, as it
seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy; and it was
only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
should next have something to make us sad."  
 

The Lion and the Three Bulls 
 
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in
ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to
attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful
speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without
fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own
leisure.  
 
Union is strength.  
 

The Fowler and the Viper 
 
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
birds.  Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take
it, and fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently,
having his whole thoughts directed towards the sky.  While thus
looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep just
before his feet.  The Viper, turning about, stung him, and
falling into a swoon, the man said to himself, "Woe is me! that
while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
into the snares of death."  
 

The Horse and the Ass 
 
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway. 
The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way. 
"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my
heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to
the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having
become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The
Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself
reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'  
 

The Fox and the Mask 
 
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all
his properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a
human head.  He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful
head! Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."  
 

The Geese and the Cranes 
 
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets.  The Cranes, being
light of wing, fled away at his approach; while the Geese, being
slower of flight and heavier in their bodies, were captured.  
 

The Blind Man and the Whelp 
 
A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by
touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought
him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was. 
He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know
whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this
I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the
sheepfold."  
 
Evil tendencies are shown in early life.  
 

The Dogs and the Fox 
 
SOME DOGS, finding the skin of a lion, began to tear it in pieces
with their teeth.  A Fox, seeing them, said, "If this lion were
alive, you would soon find out that his claws were stronger than
your teeth."  
 
It is easy to kick a man that is down.  
 

The Cobbler Turned Doctor 
 
A COBBLER unable to make a living by his trade and made desperate
by poverty, began to practice medicine in a town in which he was
not known.  He sold a drug, pretending that it was an antidote to
all poisons, and obtained a great name for himself by long-winded
puffs and advertisements.  When the Cobbler happened to fall sick
himself of a serious illness, the Governor of the town determined
to test his skill.  For this purpose he called for a cup, and
while filling it with water, pretended to mix poison with the
Cobbler's antidote, commanding him to drink it on the promise of
a reward.  The Cobbler, under the fear of death, confessed that
he had no knowledge of medicine, and was only made famous by the
stupid clamors of the crowd.  The Governor then called a public
assembly and addressed the citizens:  "Of what folly have you been
guilty? You have not hesitated to entrust your heads to a man,
whom no one could employ to make even the shoes for their feet."

 
The Wolf and the Horse 
 
A WOLF coming out of a field of oats met a Horse and thus
addressed him:  "I would advise you to go into that field.  It is
full of fine oats, which I have left untouched for you, as you
are a friend whom I would love to hear enjoying good eating."  The
Horse replied, "If oats had been the food of wolves, you would
never have indulged your ears at the cost of your belly."  
 
Men of evil reputation, when they perform a good deed, fail to
get credit for it.  
 

The Brother and the Sister 
 
A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for
his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While
they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to
look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's
chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl
grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother,
interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into
reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged
on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy,
made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father
embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection
impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the
mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty
by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for
your lack of beauty by your virtues."  
 

The Wasps, the Partridges, and the Farmer 
 
THE WASPS and the Partridges, overcome with thirst, came to a
Farmer and besought him to give them some water to drink.  They
promised amply to repay him the favor which they asked.  The
Partridges declared that they would dig around his vines and make
them produce finer grapes.  The Wasps said that they would keep
guard and drive off thieves with their stings.  But the Farmer
interrupted them, saying:  "I have already two oxen, who, without
making any promises, do all these things.  It is surely better
for me to give the water to them than to you."  
 

The Crow and Mercury 
 
A CROW caught in a snare prayed to Apollo to release him, making
a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued
from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards,
again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same
promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared
and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe
thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'  
 

The North Wind and the Sun 
 
THE NORTH WIND and the Sun disputed as to which was the most
powerful, and agreed that he should be declared the victor who
could first strip a wayfaring man of his clothes.  The North Wind
first tried his power and blew with all his might, but the keener
his blasts, the closer the Traveler wrapped his cloak around him,
until at last, resigning all hope of victory, the Wind called
upon the Sun to see what he could do.  The Sun suddenly shone out
with all his warmth.  The Traveler no sooner felt his genial rays
than he took off one garment after another, and at last, fairly
overcome with heat, undressed and bathed in a stream that lay in
his path.  
 
Persuasion is better than Force.  
 

The Two Men Who Were Enemies 
 
TWO MEN, deadly enemies to each other, were sailing in the same
vessel.  Determined to keep as far apart as possible, the one
seated himself in the stem, and the other in the prow of the
ship.  A violent storm arose, and with the vessel in great danger
of sinking, the one in the stern inquired of the pilot which of
the two ends of the ship would go down first.  On his replying
that he supposed it would be the prow, the Man said, "Death would
not be grievous to me, if I could only see my Enemy die before
me."  
 

The Gamecocks and the Partridge 
 
A MAN had two Gamecocks in his poultry-yard.  One day by chance
he found a tame Partridge for sale.  He purchased it and brought
it home to be reared with his Gamecocks.  When the Partridge was
put into the poultry-yard, they struck at it and followed it
about, so that the Partridge became grievously troubled and
supposed that he was thus evilly treated because he was a
stranger.  Not long afterwards he saw the Cocks fighting together
and not separating before one had well beaten the other.  He then
said to himself, "I shall no longer distress myself at being
struck at by these Gamecocks, when I see that they cannot even
refrain from quarreling with each other."  
 

The Quack Frog 
 
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and
proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician,
skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases.  A Fox
asked him, "How can you pretend to prescribe for others, when you
are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin?'  
 

The Lion, the Wolf, and the Fox 
 
A LION, growing old, lay sick in his cave.  All the beasts came
to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore,
thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to
the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over
them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the
Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion
roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity
to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come
to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from
place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt
from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded
him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must
flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The
Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to
him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to
ill, but to good, will."  
 

The Dog's House 
 
IN THE WINTERTIME, a Dog curled up in as small a space as
possible on account of the cold, determined to make himself a
house.  However when the summer returned again, he lay asleep
stretched at his full length and appeared to himself to be of a
great size.  Now he considered that it would be neither an easy
nor a necessary work to make himself such a house as would
accommodate him.  
 

The Wolf and the Lion 
 
ROAMING BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow
become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself,
"Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly
an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be
acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was
indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and
killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched
me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my
destruction."  
 

The Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat 
 
THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the
conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight,
always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When
peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both
combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery,
he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth
concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and
at night.  
 

The Spendthrift and the Swallow 
 
A YOUNG MAN, a great spendthrift, had run through all his
patrimony and had but one good cloak left.  One day he happened
to see a Swallow, which had appeared before its season, skimming
along a pool and twittering gaily.  He supposed that summer had
come, and went and sold his cloak.  Not many days later, winter
set in again with renewed frost and cold.  When he found the
unfortunate Swallow lifeless on the ground, he said, "Unhappy
bird! what have you done? By thus appearing before the springtime
you have not only killed yourself, but you have wrought my
destruction also."  
 

The Fox and the Lion 
 
A FOX saw a Lion confined in a cage, and standing near him,
bitterly reviled him.  The Lion said to the Fox, "It is not thou
who revilest me; but this mischance which has befallen me."  
 

The Owl and the Birds 
 
AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn
first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and
not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe,
from which an irremediable poison, the bird- 
lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured. 
The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which
men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them. 
And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that
this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers
which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves. 
The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered
the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But
afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her
knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is
that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things,
while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments
their past folly.  
 

The Trumpeter Taken Prisoner 
 
A TRUMPETER, bravely leading on the soldiers, was captured by the
enemy.  He cried out to his captors, "Pray spare me, and do not
take my life without cause or without inquiry.  I have not slain
a single man of your troop.  I have no arms, and carry nothing
but this one brass trumpet."  "That is the very reason for which
you should be put to death," they said; "for, while you do not
fight yourself, your trumpet stirs all the others to battle."  
 

The Ass in the Lion's Skin 
 
AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest
and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met
in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to
frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his
voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened
myself, if I had not heard your bray."  
 

The Sparrow and the Hare 
 
A HARE pounced upon by an eagle sobbed very much and uttered
cries like a child.  A Sparrow upbraided her and said, "Where now
is thy remarkable swiftness of foot? Why were your feet so slow?"
While the Sparrow was thus speaking, a hawk suddenly seized him
and killed him.  The Hare was comforted in her death, and
expiring said, "Ah! you who so lately, when you supposed yourself
safe, exulted over my calamity, have now reason to deplore a
similar misfortune."  
 

The Flea and the Ox 
 
A FLEA thus questioned an Ox:  "What ails you, that being so huge
and strong, you submit to the wrongs you receive from men and
slave for them day by day, while I, being so small a creature,
mercilessly feed on their flesh and drink their blood without
stint?'  The Ox replied:  "I do not wish to be ungrateful, for I am
loved and well cared for by men, and they often pat my head and
shoulders."  "Woe's me!"  said the flea; "this very patting which
you like, whenever it happens to me, brings with it my inevitable
destruction."  
 

The Goods and the Ills 
 
ALL the Goods were once driven out by the Ills from that common
share which they each had in the affairs of mankind; for the Ills
by reason of their numbers had prevailed to possess the earth. 
The Goods wafted themselves to heaven and asked for a righteous
vengeance on their persecutors.  They entreated Jupiter that they
might no longer be associated with the Ills, as they had nothing
in common and could not live together, but were engaged in
unceasing warfare; and that an indissoluble law might be laid
down for their future protection.  Jupiter granted their request
and decreed that henceforth the Ills should visit the earth in
company with each other, but that the Goods should one by one
enter the habitations of men.  Hence it arises that Ills abound,
for they come not one by one, but in troops, and by no means
singly:  while the Goods proceed from Jupiter, and are given, not
alike to all, but singly, and separately; and one by one to those
who are able to discern them.  
 

The Dove and the Crow 
 
A DOVE shut up in a cage was boasting of the large number of
young ones which she had hatched.  A Crow hearing her, said:  "My
good friend, cease from this unseasonable boasting.  The larger
the number of your family, the greater your cause of sorrow, in
seeing them shut up in this prison-house."  
 

Mercury and the Workmen 
 
A WORKMAN, felling wood by the side of a river, let his axe drop
- by accident into a deep pool.  Being thus deprived of the means
of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard
fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears. 
After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the
stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the
one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury
disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a
silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were
his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool
for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost. 
The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery. 
Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver
axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his
house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of
them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for
himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into
the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep. 
Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having
learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and
brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The
Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the
very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his
knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to
recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.  
 

The Eagle and the Jackdaw 
 
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon
a lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.  A Jackdaw, who
witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with envy and
determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.  He
flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a
large ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws
became entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to
release himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much
as he could.  The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and
caught him.  He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking
him home at night, gave him to his children.  On their saying,
"Father, what kind of bird is it?'  he replied, "To my certain
knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think an Eagle."

 

The Fox and the Crane 
 
A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
into a broad flat stone dish.  The soup fell out of the long bill
of the Crane at every mouthful, and his vexation at not being
able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.  The Crane, in his
turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before her a flagon
with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily insert his neck
and enjoy its contents at his leisure.  The Fox, unable even to
taste it, met with a fitting requital, after the fashion of her
own hospitality.   


Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus 
 
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by
Jupiter, the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by
Minerva.  On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as
to which had made the most perfect work.  They agreed to appoint
Momus as judge, and to abide by his decision.  Momus, however,
being very envious of the handicraft of each, found fault with
all.  He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made
the horns of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see
where to strike.  He then condemned the work of Jupiter, because
he had not placed the heart of man on the outside, that everyone
might read the thoughts of the evil disposed and take precautions
against the intended mischief.  And, lastly, he inveighed against
Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the
foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily
remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at
such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge,
and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.  
 

The Eagle and the Fox 
 
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to
live near each other.  The Eagle built her nest in the branches
of a tall tree, while the Fox crept into the underwood and there
produced her young.  Not long after they had agreed upon this
plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision for her young ones,
swooped down while the Fox was out, seized upon one of the little
cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.  The Fox on her return,
discovered what had happened, but was less grieved for the death
of her young than for her inability to avenge them.  A just
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.  While
hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing
a goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it,
along with a burning cinder, to her nest.  A strong breeze soon
fanned the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged
and helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at
the bottom of the tree.  There, in the sight of the Eagle, the
Fox gobbled them up.  
 

The Man and the Satyr 
 
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of
alliance being formed between them.  One very cold wintry day, as
they talked, the Man put his fingers to his mouth and blew on
them.  When the Satyr asked the reason for this, he told him that
he did it to warm his hands because they were so cold.  Later on
in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was quite
scalding.  The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards his
mouth and blew in it.  When the Satyr again inquired the reason,
he said that he did it to cool the meat, which was too hot.  "I
can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."  
 

The Ass and His Purchaser 
 
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that
he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the
Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon
which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. 
Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his
owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have
made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know
that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his
companion."  
 
A man is known by the company he keeps.  
 

The Two Bags 
 
EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world
with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of
his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own
faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of
others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.  
 

The Stag at the Pool 
 
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink.  Seeing his
own shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size
and variety of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having
such slender and weak feet.  While he was thus contemplating
himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and crouched to spring upon
him.  The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his
utmost speed, as long as the plain was smooth and open kept
himself easily at a safe distance from the Lion.  But entering a
wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly came
up to him and caught him.  When too late, he thus reproached
himself:  "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which
would have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers
which have proved my destruction."  
 
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.  
 

The Jackdaw and the Fox 
 
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the
hope that the figs would ripen.  A Fox seeing him sitting so long
and learning the reason of his doing so, said to him, "You are
indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are indulging a hope
strong enough to cheat you, but which will never reward you with
enjoyment."  
 

The Lark Burying Her Father 
 
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth,
she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie
uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what
else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
grave-hillock.  
 
Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.  
 

The Gnat and the Bull 
 
A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. 
Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and
inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull
replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you
when you go away."  
 
Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the
eyes of their neighbors.  
 

The Bitch and Her Whelps 
 
A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place
where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she
besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The
shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by
the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able
to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place
and would not permit the shepherd to approach.  
 

The Dogs and the Hides 
 
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping
in a river.  Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink
up the river, but it happened that they burst themselves with
drinking long before they reached the hides.  
 
Attempt not impossibilities.  
 

The Shepherd and the Sheep 
 
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual
size full of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches,
he climbed up into the tree and shook them down.  The Sheep
eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the cloak.  When
the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said, "O you
most ungrateful creatures! You provide wool to make garments for
all other men, but you destroy the clothes of him who feeds you."

 

The Grasshopper and the Owl 
 
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day,
was greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
besought her to stop chirping.  The Grasshopper refused to
desist, and chirped louder and louder the more the Owl entreated. 
When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words
were despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem. 
"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge
myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If
you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together."
The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of
her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow,
seized her, and put her to death.  
 

The Monkey and the Camel 
 
THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which
the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the
assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel,
envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to
divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up
in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so
utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of
indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the
assembly.  
 
It is absurd to ape our betters.  
 

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree 
 
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but
only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He
resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a
bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows
entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but
to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors. 
He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second
and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the
tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the
honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as
sacred, took great care of it.  
 
Self-interest alone moves some men.  
 

The Two Soldiers and the Robber 
 
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber.  The
one fled away; the other stood his ground and defended himself
with his stout right hand.  The Robber being slain, the timid
companion ran up and drew his sword, and then, throwing back his
traveling cloak said, "I'll at him, and I'll take care he shall
learn whom he has attacked."  On this, he who had fought with the
Robber made answer, "I only wish that you had helped me just now,
even if it had been only with those words, for I should have been
the more encouraged, believing them to be true; but now put up
your sword in its sheath and hold your equally useless tongue,
till you can deceive others who do not know you.  I, indeed, who
have experienced with what speed you run away, know right well
that no dependence can be placed on your valor."  
 

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods 
 
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
trees to be under their special protection.  Jupiter chose the
oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and
Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred
trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice. 
Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor
for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will
the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said
Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless
what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."  
 

The Mother and the Wolf 
 
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of
food.  As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he
heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you
out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all
day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman
fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the
Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these
words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached
his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied
and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why,
forsooth!
use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"  
 

The Ass and the Horse 
 
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed. 
"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now
eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior
dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the
evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass
replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater
benefit."  
 

Truth and the Traveler 
 
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing
alone and terribly dejected.  He inquired of her, "Who art thou?"
"My name is Truth," she replied.  "And for what cause," he asked,
"have you left the city to dwell alone here in the wilderness?"
She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with
few, but is now with all men."  
 
The Manslayer 
 
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the
man whom he murdered.  On his reaching the river Nile he saw a
Lion on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree. 
He found a serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again
being greatly alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a
crocodile caught him and ate him.  Thus the earth, the air, and
the water alike refused shelter to a murderer.  
 
The Lion and the Fox 
 
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of
becoming his servant.  Each undertook his proper duty in
accordance with his own nature and powers.  The Fox discovered
and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and seized it. 
The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the Lion's
share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey, but
would capture it on his own account.  The next day he attempted
to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself fell prey to the
huntsmen and hounds.  
 
The Lion and the Eagle 
 
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an
alliance with him to their mutual advantage.  The Lion replied,
"I have no objection, but you must excuse me for requiring you to
find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust anyone as a
friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever he
pleases?'  
 
Try before you trust.  
 
The Hen and the Swallow 
 
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them
warm, nourished them into life.  A Swallow, observing what she
had done, said, "You silly creature! why have you hatched these
vipers which, when they shall have grown, will inflict injury on
all, beginning with yourself?'  
 
The Buffoon and the Countryman 
 
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the
people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward
any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion. 
Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them
came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and
said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been
brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about
made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part. 
The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any
apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation
caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his
bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably
with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under
his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that
was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and
loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd,
observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he
shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he
would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more
natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the
theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very
generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the
Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers
appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away
first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and
cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and
pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes
(which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience )
contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to
squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the
Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for
the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the
rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the
most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here,"
he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."  
 
The Crow and the Serpent 
 
A CROW in great want of food saw a Serpent asleep in a sunny
nook, and flying down, greedily seized him.  The Serpent, turning
about, bit the Crow with a mortal wound.  In the agony of death,
the bird exclaimed:  "O unhappy me! who have found in that which I
deemed a happy windfall the source of my destruction."  
 
The Hunter and the Horseman 
 
A CERTAIN HUNTER, having snared a hare, placed it upon his
shoulders and set out homewards.  On his way he met a man on
horseback who begged the hare of him, under the pretense of
purchasing it.  However, when the Horseman got the hare, he rode
off as fast as he could.  The Hunter ran after him, as if he was
sure of overtaking him, but the Horseman increased more and more
the distance between them.  The Hunter, sorely against his will,
called out to him and said, "Get along with you! for I will now
make you a present of the hare."  
 
The King's Son and the Painted Lion 
 
A KING, whose only son was fond of martial exercises, had a dream
in which he was warned that his son would be killed by a lion. 
Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a
pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all
kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a
lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus
confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said:
"O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my
father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account
in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to
you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a
thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he
might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his
finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young
Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set
in, from which he died not many days later.  
 
We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them. 

 
The Cat and Venus 
 
A CAT fell in love with a handsome young man, and entreated Venus
to change her into the form of a woman.  Venus consented to her
request and transformed her into a beautiful damsel, so that the
youth saw her and loved her, and took her home as his bride. 
While the two were reclining in their chamber, Venus wishing to
discover if the Cat in her change of shape had also altered her
habits of life, let down a mouse in the middle of the room.  The
Cat, quite forgetting her present condition, started up from the
couch and pursued the mouse, wishing to eat it.  Venus was much
disappointed and again caused her to return to her former shape. 

 
Nature exceeds nurture.  
 

The She-Goats and Their Beards 
 
THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the
He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the
females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to
enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex,
so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."  
 
It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should
be like us in outside appearances.  
 
The Camel and the Arab 
 
AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel,
asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The
poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you
ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"

 
The Miller, His Son, and Their Ass 
 
A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair
to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of
women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look
there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be
trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old
man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and
continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came
up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of
them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to
old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his
old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let
the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his
son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not
proceeded far when they met a company of women and children:
"Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how
can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can
hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller
immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost
reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is
that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would
not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. 
Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than
he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but
try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass
together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on
their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. 
This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at
it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling
that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and,
tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old
man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again,
convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased
nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.  
 
The Crow and the Sheep 
 
A TROUBLESOME CROW seated herself on the back of a Sheep.  The
Sheep, much against his will, carried her backward and forward
for a long time, and at last said, "If you had treated a dog in
this way, you would have had your deserts from his sharp teeth."
To this the Crow replied, "I despise the weak and yield to the
strong.  I know whom I may bully and whom I must flatter; and I
thus prolong my life to a good old age."  
 
The Fox and the Bramble 
 
A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught
hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously
tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when
he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than
the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you
really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on
me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."  
 
The Wolf and the Lion 
 
A WOLF, having stolen a lamb from a fold, was carrying him off to
his lair.  A Lion met him in the path, and seizing the lamb, took
it from him.  Standing at a safe distance, the Wolf exclaimed,
"You have unrighteously taken that which was mine from me!"  To
which the Lion jeeringly replied, "It was righteously yours, eh?
The gift of a friend?'  
 
The Dog and the Oyster 
 
A DOG, used to eating eggs, saw an Oyster and, opening his mouth
to its widest extent, swallowed it down with the utmost relish,
supposing it to be an egg.  Soon afterwards suffering great pain
in his stomach, he said, "I deserve all this torment, for my
folly in thinking that everything round must be an egg."  
 
They who act without sufficient thought, will often fall into
unsuspected danger.  
 
The Ant and the Dove 
 
AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and
being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of
drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked
a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant
climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly
afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid
his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant,
perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the
birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove
take wing.  
 
The Partridge and the Fowler 
 
A FOWLER caught a Partridge and was about to kill it.  The
Partridge earnestly begged him to spare his life, saying, "Pray,
master, permit me to live and I will entice many Partridges to
you in recompense for your mercy to me."  The Fowler replied, "I
shall now with less scruple take your life, because you are
willing to save it at the cost of betraying your friends and
relations."  
 
The Flea and the Man 
 
A MAN, very much annoyed with a Flea, caught him at last, and
said, "Who are you who dare to feed on my limbs, and to cost me
so much trouble in catching you?'  The Flea replied, "O my dear
sir, pray spare my life, and destroy me not, for I cannot
possibly do you much harm."  The Man, laughing, replied, "Now you
shall certainly die by mine own hands, for no evil, whether it be
small or large, ought to be tolerated."  
 
The Thieves and the Cock 
 
SOME THIEVES broke into a house and found nothing but a Cock,
whom they stole, and got off as fast as they could.  Upon
arriving at home they prepared to kill the Cock, who thus pleaded
for his life:  "Pray spare me; I am very serviceable to men.  I
wake them up in the night to their work."  "That is the very
reason why we must the more kill you," they replied; "for when
you wake your neighbors, you entirely put an end to our
business."  
 
The safeguards of virtue are hateful to those with evil
intentions.  
 
The Dog and the Cook 
 
A RICH MAN gave a great feast, to which he invited many friends
and acquaintances.  His Dog availed himself of the occasion to
invite a stranger Dog, a friend of his, saying, "My master gives
a feast, and there is always much food remaining; come and sup
with me tonight."  The Dog thus invited went at the hour
appointed, and seeing the preparations for so grand an
entertainment, said in the joy of his heart, "How glad I am that
I came! I do not often get such a chance as this.  I will take
care and eat enough to last me both today and tomorrow."  While he
was congratulating himself and wagging his tail to convey his
pleasure to his friend, the Cook saw him moving about among his
dishes and, seizing him by his fore and hind paws, bundled him
without ceremony out of the window.  He fell with force upon the
ground and limped away, howling dreadfully.  His yelling soon
attracted other street dogs, who came up to him and inquired how
he had enjoyed his supper.  He replied, "Why, to tell you the
truth, I drank so much wine that I remember nothing.  I do not
know how I got out of the house."  
 
The Travelers and the Plane-Tree 
 
TWO TRAVELERS, worn out by the heat of the summer's sun, laid
themselves down at noon under the widespreading branches of a
Plane-Tree.  As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers
said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane!
It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The
Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do
you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade,
dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'  
 
Some men underrate their best blessings.  
 

The Hares and the Frogs 
 
THE HARES, oppressed by their own exceeding timidity and weary of
the perpetual alarm to which they were exposed, with one accord
determined to put an end to themselves and their troubles by
jumping from a lofty precipice into a deep lake below.  As they
scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the
Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their
feet and rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On
seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares
cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you
intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still
more timid than ourselves."  
 

The Lion, Jupiter, and the Elephant 
 
THE LION wearied Jupiter with his frequent complaints.  "It is
true, O Jupiter!"  he said, "that I am gigantic in strength,
handsome in shape, and powerful in attack.  I have jaws well
provided with teeth, and feet furnished with claws, and I lord it
over all the beasts of the forest, and what a disgrace it is,
that being such as I am, I should be frightened by the crowing of
a cock."  Jupiter replied, "Why do you blame me without a cause? I
have given you all the attributes which I possess myself, and
your courage never fails you except in this one instance."  On
hearing this the Lion groaned and lamented very much and,
reproaching himself with his cowardice, wished that he might die. 
As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and
came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he
observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he
inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a
tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on
the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little
buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should
die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is
afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself
dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the
Elephant."  
 
The Lamb and the Wolf 
 
A WOLF pursued a Lamb, which fled for refuge to a certain Temple. 
The Wolf called out to him and said, "The Priest will slay you in
sacrifice, if he should catch you."  On which the Lamb replied,
"It would be better for me to be sacrificed in the Temple than to
be eaten by you."  
 

The Rich Man and the Tanner 
 
A RICH MAN lived near a Tanner, and not being able to bear the
unpleasant smell of the tan-yard, he pressed his neighbor to go
away.  The Tanner put off his departure from time to time, saying
that he would leave soon.  But as he still continued to stay, as
time went on, the rich man became accustomed to the smell, and
feeling no manner of inconvenience, made no further complaints.  
 

The Shipwrecked Man and the Sea 
 
A SHIPWRECKED MAN, having been cast upon a certain shore, slept
after his buffetings with the deep.  After a while he awoke, and
looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that
it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had
induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed
them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him:
"Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own
nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds
suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into
fury."  
 

The Mules and the Robbers 
 
TWO MULES well-laden with packs were trudging along.  One carried
panniers filled with money, the other sacks weighted with grain. 
The Mule carrying the treasure walked with head erect, as if
conscious of the value of his burden, and tossed up and down the
clear-toned bells fastened to his neck.  His companion followed
with quiet and easy step.  All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon
them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their
owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure,
which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain. 
The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his
misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was
thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with
any wound."  
 

The Viper and the File 
 
A LION, entering the workshop of a smith, sought from the tools
the means of satisfying his hunger.  He more particularly
addressed himself to a File, and asked of him the favor of a
meal.  The File replied, "You must indeed be a simple-minded
fellow if you expect to get anything from me, who am accustomed
to take from everyone, and never to give anything in return."  
 

The Lion and the Shepherd 
 
A LION, roaming through a forest, trod upon a thorn.  Soon
afterward he came up to a Shepherd and fawned upon him, wagging
his tail as if to say, "I am a suppliant, and seek your aid."  The
Shepherd boldly examined the beast, discovered the thorn, and
placing his paw upon his lap, pulled it out; thus relieved of his
pain, the Lion returned into the forest.  Some time after, the
Shepherd, being imprisoned on a false accusation, was condemned
"to be cast to the Lions" as the punishment for his imputed
crime.  But when the Lion was released from his cage, he
recognized the Shepherd as the man who healed him, and instead of
attacking him, approached and placed his foot upon his lap.  The
King, as soon as he heard the tale, ordered the Lion to be set
free again in the forest, and the Shepherd to be pardoned and
restored to his friends.  
 

The Camel and Jupiter 
 
THE CAMEL, when he saw the Bull adorned with horns, envied him
and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went
to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed
at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and
strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give
him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.  
 

The Panther and the Shepherds 
 
A PANTHER, by some mischance, fell into a pit.  The Shepherds
discovered him, and some threw sticks at him and pelted him with
stones, while others, moved with compassion towards one about to
die even though no one should hurt him, threw in some food to
prolong his life.  At night they returned home, not dreaming of
any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him
dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble
strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and
hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came
forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who
had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had
spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him
their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the
Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my
life with stones, and those who gave me food    
aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those
who injured me."  
 

The Ass and the Charger 
 
AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and
carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to
eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out,
a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the
charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was
wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing
all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.  
 

The Eagle and His Captor 
 
AN EAGLE was once captured by a man, who immediately clipped his
wings and put him into his poultry-yard with the other birds, at
which treatment the Eagle was weighed down with grief.  Later,
another neighbor purchased him and allowed his feathers to grow
again.  The Eagle took flight, and pouncing upon a hare, brought
it at once as an offering to his benefactor.  A Fox, seeing this,
exclaimed, "Do not cultivate the favor of this man, but of your
former owner, lest he should again hunt for you and deprive you a
second time of your wings."  
 

The Bald Man and the Fly 
 
A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy
it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly,
"You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a
tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to
injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with
myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you,
an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking
human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had
incurred a heavier penalty."  
 

The Olive-Tree and the Fig-Tree 
 
THE OLIVE-TREE ridiculed the Fig-Tree because, while she was
green all the year round, the Fig-Tree changed its leaves with
the seasons.  A shower of snow fell upon them, and, finding the
Olive full of foliage, it settled upon its branches and broke
them down with its weight, at once despoiling it of its beauty
and killing the tree.  But finding the Fig-Tree denuded of
leaves, the snow fell through to the ground, and did not injure
it at all.  
 

The Eagle and the Kite 
 
AN EAGLE, overwhelmed with sorrow, sat upon the branches of a
tree in company with a Kite.  "Why," said the Kite, "do I see you
with such a rueful look?'  "I seek," she replied, "a mate suitable
for me, and am not able to find one."  "Take me," returned the
Kite, "I am much stronger than you are."  "Why, are you able to
secure the means of living by your plunder?'  "Well, I have often
caught and carried away an ostrich in my talons."  The Eagle,
persuaded by these words, accepted him as her mate.  Shortly
after the nuptials, the Eagle said, "Fly off and bring me back
the ostrich you promised me."  The Kite, soaring aloft into the
air, brought back the shabbiest possible mouse, stinking from the
length of time it had lain about the fields.  "Is this," said the
Eagle, "the faithful fulfillment of your promise to me?'  The Kite
replied, "That I might attain your royal hand, there is nothing
that I would not have promised, however much I knew that I must
fail in the performance."  
 

The Ass and His Driver 
 
AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and
bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act
of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail,
endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his
effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to
your cost."  
 

The Thrush and the Fowler 
 
A THRUSH was feeding on a myrtle-tree and did not move from it
because its berries were so delicious.  A Fowler observed her
staying so long in one spot, and having well bird-limed his
reeds, caught her.  The Thrush, being at the point of death,
exclaimed, "O foolish creature that I am! For the sake of a
little pleasant food I have deprived myself of my life."  
 

The Rose and the Amaranth 
 
AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed
it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods
and with men.  I envy you your beauty and your perfume."  The Rose
replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief
season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish
by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, but
bloomest for ever in renewed youth."  
 

The Frogs' Complaint Against the Sun 
 
ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a
wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky. 
Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the
cause of their complaint.  One of them said, "The Sun, now while
he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to die
miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future condition
if he should beget other suns?'  
 

LIFE OF AESOP 
 
THE LIFE and History of Aesop is involved, like that of Homer,
the most famous of Greek poets, in much obscurity.  Sardis, the
capital of Lydia; Samos, a Greek island; Mesembria, an ancient
colony in Thrace; and Cotiaeum, the chief city of a province of
Phrygia, contend for the distinction of being the birthplace of
Aesop.  Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely
assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few
incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established
facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is,
by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about
the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was
owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos,
Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a
reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a
freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission
to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the
philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times,
raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a
position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to
be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among
others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia,
the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. 
He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other
sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the
part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers,
that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into
a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."  
 
On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis,
and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and
delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions
he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time
he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring,
by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the
inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their
respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these
ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was
the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a
large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so
provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the
money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at
this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his
sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public
criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The
citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities,
until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The
blood of Aesop" became a well- 
known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong
would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack
posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at
Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek
sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:

Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici,
Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi:  
Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; 
Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.
 
These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of
certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. 
They were first brought to light, after a patient search and
diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude
Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being
tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself
exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno
Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and
German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M.
Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been
confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state,
that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop
was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople,
who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor
Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the
fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early
editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by
Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. 
This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of
truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque
deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying
legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally
condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up
in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the
slightest credit.  
G.F.T.  
 
1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes,
"Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les
absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de
toute."
Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.  
*********Preface********
PREFACE 
 
THE TALE, the Parable, and the Fable are all common and popular
modes of conveying instruction.  Each is distinguished by its own
special characteristics.  The Tale consists simply in the
narration of a story either founded on facts, or created solely
by the imagination, and not necessarily associated with the
teaching of any moral lesson.  The Parable is the designed use of
language purposely intended to convey a hidden and secret
meaning other than that contained in the words themselves; and
which may or may not bear a special reference to the hearer, or
reader.  The Fable partly agrees with, and partly differs from
both of these.  It will contain, like the Tale, a short but real
narrative; it will seek, like the Parable, to convey a hidden
meaning, and that not so much by the use of language, as by the
skilful introduction of fictitious characters; and yet unlike to
either Tale or Parable, it will ever keep in view, as its high
prerogative, and inseparable attribute, the great purpose of
instruction, and will necessarily seek to inculcate some moral
maxim, social duty, or political truth.  The true Fable, if it
rise to its high requirements, ever aims at one great end and
purpose representation of human motive, and the improvement of
human conduct, and yet it so conceals its design under the
disguise of fictitious characters, by clothing with speech the
animals of the field, the birds of the air, the trees of the
wood, or the beasts of the forest, that the reader shall receive
advice without perceiving the presence of the adviser.  Thus the
superiority of the counsellor, which often renders counsel
unpalatable, is kept out of view, and the lesson comes with the
greater acceptance when the reader is led, unconsciously to
himself, to have his sympathies enlisted in behalf of what is
pure, honorable, and praiseworthy, and to have his indignation
excited against what is low, ignoble, and unworthy.  The true
fabulist, therefore, discharges a most important function.  He is
neither a narrator, nor an allegorist.  He is a great teacher, a
corrector of morals, a censor of vice, and a commender of virtue. 
In this consists the superiority of the Fable over the Tale or
the Parable.  The fabulist is to create a laugh, but yet, under a
merry guise, to convey instruction.  Phaedrus, the great imitator
of Aesop, plainly indicates this double purpose to be the true
office of the writer of fables.  
 
Duplex libelli dos est:  quod risum movet, 
Et quod prudenti vitam consilio monet.  
 
The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm,
and accounts for the universal favor, of the fables of Aesop. 
"The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece
in an intentional travestie of human affairs.  The 'ainos,' as
its name denotes, is an admonition, or rather a reproof veiled,
either from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun
and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening among
beasts; and wherever we have any ancient and authentic account of
the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."  l 
 
The construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1)
the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) a
careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the
fictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should
relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neither
be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by a
variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be so
plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarily
dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be
compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The
introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be
marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their
natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them by
universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, the
Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the
Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are
characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They
are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral
naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. 
"'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of
Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and
gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His
'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable
in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops
her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest
admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a
separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it
deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated
reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the
consistency with which the characters of the animals,
fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to
depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an
eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel,
of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.  
 
These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed
on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that
unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the
narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals,
which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. 
This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for
in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The
great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are
obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he
lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is
related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with
its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs
on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later
origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and
yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier
and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name,
because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same
mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the
same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to
himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables,
and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since
borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding
ages, the position of the first of moralists.7 
 
The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and
for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral
tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed
his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship
from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning
some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such
as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens
about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of
these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent
misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a
freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about
the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician
of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into
Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more
worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both
in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers
were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to
their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of
the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby
in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and
various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the
Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the
Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse,
which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name,
translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius,
put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by
Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are
occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.  
 
Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the
Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to
have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been
forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth
century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of
learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we
next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus
Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of
about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of
his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in
his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In
1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the
Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate
contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth
advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and
persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has
been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one
hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we
shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this
Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to
turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the
other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to
have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off
under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies
between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few
fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but
there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove
that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop,
although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as
contained in the various translations and disquisitional
exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection
is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or
foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the
direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the
learned.  
 
The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop
to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is
to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The
calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the
fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to
promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that
recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of
Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among
the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted
attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and
the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students
of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of
Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of
Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the
Fables of Aesop.  
 
These fables, again, were among the books brought into an
extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus
Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these
fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards,
Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West-
minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the
learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence
on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of
some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced
into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days,
and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons
of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The
publication of this era which most probably has influenced these
fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a
hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini,
published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller,
his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are
undoubtedly selected.  
 
The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into
Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and
sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation,
who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest
against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The
zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the
preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst
his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in
the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin
Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by
Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the
celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I,
king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the
Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. 
the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made
by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert
Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a
MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.  
 
The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the
Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was
made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year
1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the
third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled
"Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to
the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of
Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to
the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the
various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new
fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the
Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of
forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions
of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This
volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum
Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to
universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers
of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has
elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no
book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider
circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into
the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the
East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations,
alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at
the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the
civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the
common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of
all countries.  
 
This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in
the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian
Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the
germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct
by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an
opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the
veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This
intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the
knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full
understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with
the writings that bear his name.  
 
The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it
might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of
literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of
Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in
which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one
critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League,
B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died
A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in
the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of
Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely
disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is
mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the
close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several
isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John
Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived
during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the
preface to the volume which we have described, points out that
the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they
contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a
verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of
the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis
Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length
on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal
evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the
harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred
years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern
words, that many of these fables must have been at least
committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more
boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These
various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at
the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely
the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that
many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved
into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have
written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then
justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the
exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly
extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much
opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a
member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle,
19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on
this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning,
will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the
seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet
further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a
well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he
might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. 
Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias,
and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. 
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned
Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the
supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of
fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library
several fables never before published.  In the year 1844,
however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. 
A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as
were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's
Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M.
Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public
Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a
commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his
instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on
Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and
wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to
be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and
twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery
attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a
singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain
of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures
tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity
and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables
thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy
editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and
a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend
James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College,
Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus,
after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the
earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian
Fables.  
 
The following are the sources from which the present translation
has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall
Lewis.  Oxford, 1846.  
Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam
edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857.  
Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. 
Frankfort, 1610.  
Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et
studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810.  
??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri
Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.  
 
GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND 
 
FOOTNOTES 
 
1 A History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, by K.  O. 
Mueller.  Vol.  i, p.  l9l.  London, Parker, 1858.  
2 Select Fables of Aesop, and other Fabulists.  In three books,
translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of
notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60.  
3 Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a
primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion of
their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing
event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the
fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are
supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the
injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the
"Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by
Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of
Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and
Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed
to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard
to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the
"Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the
contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus
the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however,
though thus originating in special events, and designed at first
to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to
be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal
application.  
4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202.  
5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of
this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves
of Aristophanes, line 808.  
6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of
the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193.  
7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a
point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom
soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui
pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les
paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que
j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans
doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne
si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette
sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique.   
8 Plato in Ph2done.  
9 Apologos en! misit tibi    
  Ab usque Rheni limite  
  Ausonius nomen Italum
  Praeceptor Augusti tui     
  Aesopiam trimetriam;   
  Quam vertit exili stylo    
  Pedestre concinnans opus   
  Fandi Titianus artifex.  
        Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80.  
10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are
placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of
the curious.  
ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the
mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might
by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is
the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop
of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing
only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of
long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the
figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the
rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the
luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely
those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and
unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by
the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact
title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli
Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus
quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et
feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes,
published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a
Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum,"
reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which
many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no
correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable.  
12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons,
1865.  
13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio
Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801.  
14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. 
July, 1849.  
15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was
written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac
(though published after his death), for the purpose of showing
that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and
D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction
from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera 
omnia. Amsterdam. 1709.  
16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the
learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary,
(Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris,
1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions
of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor.  
17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting
iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a
spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid
shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of
Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. 
Preface, p.  27.  
18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of
Phalaris.  
19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and
Fables of Aesop examined.  By the Honorable Charles Boyle.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
         -----=====Earth's Dreamlands=====-----
           (313)558-5024 {14.4} (313)558-5517
              A BBS for text file junkies
              RPGNet GM File Archive Site
.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.

         The Adventure of the Bruce-Partington Plans

  In the third week of November, in the year 1895, a dense yellow
fog settled down upon London. From the Monday to the Thurs-
day I doubt whether it was ever possible from our windows in
Baker Street to see the loom of the opposite houses. The first day
Holmes had spent in cross-indexing his huge book of references.
The second and third had been patiently occupied upon a subject
which he had recently made his hobby -- the music of the Middle
Ages. But when, for the fourth time, after pushing back our
chairs from breakfast we saw the greasy, heavy brown swirl still
drifting past us and condensing in oily drops upon the window-
panes, my comrade's impatient and active nature could endure
this drab existence no longer. He paced restlessly about our
sitting-room in a fever of suppressed energy, biting his nails,
tapping the furniture, and chafing against inaction.
  "Nothing of interest in the paper, Watson?" he said.
  I was aware that by anything of interest, Holmes meant any-
thing of criminal interest. There was the news of a revolution, of
a possible war, and of an impending change of government; but
these did not come within the horizon of my companion. I could
see nothing recorded in the shape of crime which was not
commonplace and futile. Holmes groaned and resumed his rest-
less meanderings.
  "The London criminal is certainly a dull fellow," said he in
the querulous voice of the sportsman whose game has failed him.
"Look out of this window, Watson. See how the figures loom
up, are dimly seen, and then blend once more into the cloud-
bank. The thief or the murderer could roam London on such a
day as the tiger does the jungle, unseen until he pounces, and
then evident only to his victim."
  "There have," said I, "been numerous petty thefts."
  Holmes snorted his contempt.
  "This great and sombre stage is set for something more
worthy than that," said he. "It is fortunate for this community
that I am not a criminal."
  "It is, indeed!" said I heartily.
  "Suppose that I were Brooks or Woodhouse, or any of the fifty
men who have good reason for taking my life, how long could I
survive against my own pursuit? A summons, a bogus appointment,
and all would be over. It is well they don't have days of fog in
the Latin countries -- the countries of assassination. By Jove! here
comes something at last to break our dead monotony."
  It was the maid with a telegram. Holmes tore it open and burst
out laughing.
  "Well, well! What next?" said he. "Brother Mycroft is com-
ing round."
  "Why not?" I asked.
  "Why not? It is as if you met a tram-car coming down a
country lane. Mycroft has his rails and he runs on them. His Pall
Mall lodgings, the Diogenes Club, Whitehall -- that is his cycle.
Once, and only once, he has been here. What upheaval can
possibly have derailed him?"
  "Does he not explain?"
  Holmes handed me his brother's telegram.

         Must see you over Cadogan West. Coming at once.
                                                MYCROFT.

  "Cadogan West? I have heard the name."
  "It recalls nothing to my mind. But that Mycroft should break
out in this erratic fashion! A planet might as well leave its orbit.
By the way, do you know what Mycroft is?"
  I had some vague recollection of an explanation at the time of
the Adventure of the Greek Interpreter.
  "You told me that he had some small office under the British
government."
  Holmes chuckled.
  "I did not know you quite so well in those days. One has to
be discreet when one talks of high matters of state. You are
right in thinking that he is under the British government. You
would also be right in a sense if you said that occasionally
he is the British government."
  "My dear Holmes!"
  "I thought I might surprise you. Mycroft draws four hundred
and fifty pounds a year, remains a subordinate, has no ambitions
of any kind, will receive neither honour nor title, but remains the
most indispensable man in the country."
  "But how?"
  "Well, his position is unique. He has made it for himself.
There has never been anything like it before, nor will be again.
He has the tidiest and most orderly brain, with the greatest
capacity for storing facts, of any man living. The same great
powers which I have turned to the detection of crime he has used
for this particular business. The conclusions of every department
are passed to him, and he is the central exchange, the clearing-
house, which makes out the balance. All other men are special-
ists, but his specialism is omniscience. We will suppose that a
minister needs information as to a point which involves the
Navy, India, Canada and the bimetallic question; he could get
his separate advices from various departments upon each, but
only Mycroft can focus them all, and say offhand how each
factor would affect the other. They began by using him as a
short-cut, a convenience; now he has made himself an essential.
In that great brain of his everything is pigeon-holed and can be
handed out in an instant. Again and again his word has decided
the national policy. He lives in it. He thinks of nothing else save
when, as an intellectual exercise, he unbends if I call upon him
and ask him to advise me on one of my little problems. But
Jupiter is descending to-day. What on earth can it mean? Who is
Cadogan West, and what is he to Mycroft?"
  "I have it," I cried, and plunged among the litter of papers
upon the sofa. "Yes, yes, here he is, sure enough! Cadogan
West was the young man who was found dead on the Under-
ground on Tuesday morning."
  Holmes sat up at attention, his pipe halfway to his lips.
  "This must be serious, Watson. A death which has caused my
brother to alter his habits can be no ordinary one. What in the
world can he have to do with it? The case was featureless as I
remember it. The young man had apparently fallen out of the train
and killed himself. He had not been robbed, and there was no
particular reason to suspect violence. Is that not so?"
  "There has been an inquest," said I, "and a good many fresh
facts have come out. Looked at more closely, I should certainly
say that it was a curious case."
  "Judging by its effect upon my brother, I should think it must
be a most extraordinary one." He snuggled down in his arm-
chair. "Now, Watson, let us have the facts."
  "The man's name was Arthur Cadogan West. He was twenty-
seven years of age, unmarried, and a clerk at Woolwich Arsenal."
  "Government employ. Behold the link with Brother Mycroft!"
  "He left Woolwich suddenly on Monday night. Was last seen
by his fiancee, Miss Violet Westbury, whom he left abruptly in
the fog about 7:30 that evening. There was no quarrel between
them and she can give no motive for his action. The next thing
heard of him was when his dead body was discovered by a
plate-layer named Mason, just outside Aldgate Station on the
Underground system in London."
  "When?"
  "The body was found at six on the Tuesday morning. It was
lying wide of the metals upon the left hand of the track as one
goes eastward, at a point close to the station, where the line
emerges from the tunnel in which it runs. The head was badly
crushed -- an injury which might well have been caused by a fall
from the train. The body could only have come on the line in
that way. Had it been carried down from any neighbouring
street, it must have passed the station barriers, where a collector
is always standing. This point seems absolutely certain."
  "Very good. The case is definite enough. The man, dead or
alive, either fell or was precipitated from a train. So much is
clear to me. Continue."
  "The trains which traverse the lines of rail beside which the
body was found are those which run from west to east, some
being purely Metropolitan, and some from Willesden and outly-
ing junctions. It can be stated for certain that this young man
when he met his death, was travelling in this direction at some
late hour of the night, but at what point he entered the train it is
impossible to state."
  "His ticket, of course, would show that."
  "There was no ticket in his pockets."
  "No ticket! Dear me, Watson, this is really very singular.
According to my experience it is not possible to reach the
platform of a Metropolitan train without exhibiting one's ticket.
Presumably, then, the young man had one. Was it taken from
him in order to conceal the station from which he came? It is
possible. Or did he drop it in the carriage? That also is possible.
But the point is of curious interest. I understand that there was
no sign of robbery?"
  "Apparently not. There is a list here of his possessions. His
purse contained two pounds fifteen. He had also a check-book on
the Woolwich branch of the Capital and Counties Bank. Through
this his identity was established. There were also two dress-circle
tickets for the Woolwich Theatre, dated for that very evening.
Also a small packet of technical papers."
  Holmes gave an exclamation of satisfaction.
  "There we have it at last, Watson! British government --
Woolwich. Arsenal -- technical papers -- Brother Mycroft, the chain
is complete. But here he comes, if I am not mistaken, to speak
for himself."
  A moment later the tall and portly form of Mycroft Holmes
was ushered into the room. Heavily built and massive, there was
a suggestion of uncouth physical inertia in the figure, but above
this unwieldy frame there was perched a head so masterful in its
brow, so alert in its steel-gray, deep-set eyes, so firm in its lips,
and so subtle in its play of expression, that after the first glance
one forgot the gross body and remembered only the dominant
mind.
  At his heels came our old friend Lestrade, of Scotland Yard --
thin and austere. The gravity of both their faces foretold some
weighty quest. The detective shook hands without a word. Mycroft
Holmes struggled out of his overcoat and subsided into an armchair.
  "A most annoying business, Sherlock," said he. "I extremely
dislike altering my habits, but the powers that be would take no
denial. In the present state of Siam it is most awkward that I
should be away from the office. But it is a real crisis. I have
never seen the Prime Minister so upset. As to the Admiralty -- it
is buzzing like an overturned bee-hive. Have you read up the
case?"
  "We have just done so. What were the technical papers?"
  "Ah, there's the point! Fortunately, it has not come out. The
press would be furious if it did. The papers which this wretched
youth had in his pocket were the plans of the Bruce-Partington
submarine."
  Mycroft Holmes spoke with a solemnity which showed his
sense of the importance of the subject. His brother and I sat
expectant.
  "Surely you have heard of it? I thought everyone had heard of
it."
  "Only as a name."
  "Its importance can hardly be exaggerated. It has been the
most jealously guarded of all government secrets. You may take
it from me that naval warfare becomes impossible within the
radius of a Bruce-Partington's operation. Two years ago a very
large sum was smuggled through the Estimates and was ex-
pended in acquiring a monopoly of the invention. Every effort
has been made to keep the secret. The plans, which are exceed-
ingly intricate, comprising some thirty separate patents, each
essential to the working of the whole, are kept in an elaborate
safe in a confidential office adjoining the arsenal, with burglar-
proof doors and windows. Under no conceivable circumstances
were the plans to be taken from the office. If the chief construc-
tor of the Navy desired to consult them, even he was forced to
go to the Woolwich office for the purpose. And yet here we find
them in the pocket of a dead junior clerk in the heart of London.
From an official point of view it's simply awful."
  "But you have recovered them?"
  "No, Sherlock, no! That's the pinch. We have not. Ten
papers were taken from Woolwich. There were seven in the
pocket of Cadogan West. The three most essential are gone -- 
stolen, vanished. You must drop everything, Sherlock. Never
mind your usual petty puzzles of the police-court. It's a vital
international problem that you have to solve. Why did Cadogan
West take the papers, where are the missing ones, how did he
die, how came his body where it was found, how can the evil be
set right? Find an answer to all these questions, and you will
have done good service for your country."
  "Why do you not solve it yourself, Mycroft? You can see as
far as I."
  "Possibly, Sherlock. But it is a question of getting details.
Give me your details, and from an armchair I will return you an
excellent expert opinion. But to run here and run there, to
cross-question railway guards, and lie on my face with a lens to
my eye -- it is not my metier. No, you are the one man who can
clear the matter up. If you have a fancy to see your name in the
next honours list --"
  My friend smiled and shook his head.
  "I play the game for the game's own sake," said he. "But the
problem certainly presents some points of interest, and I shall be
very pleased to look into it. Some more facts, please."
  "I have jotted down the more essential ones upon this sheet of
paper, together with a few addresses which you will find of
service. The actual official guardian of the papers is the famous
government expert, Sir James Walter. whose decorations and
sub-titles fill two lines of a book of reference. He has grown
gray in the service, is a gentleman, a favoured guest in the most
exalted houses, and, above all, a man whose patriotism is beyond
suspicion. He is one of two who have a key of the safe. I may
add that the papers were undoubtedly in the office during work-
ing hours on Monday, and that Sir James left for London about
three o'clock taking his key with him. He was at the house of
Admiral Sinclair at Barclay Square during the whole of the
evening when this incident occurred."
  "Has the fact been verified?"
  "Yes; his brother, Colonel Valentine Walter, has testified to
his departure from Woolwich, and Admiral Sinclair to his
arrival in London; so Sir James is no longer a direct factor in the
problem."
  "Who was the other man with a key?"
  "The senior clerk and draughtsman, Mr. Sidney Johnson. He
is a man of forty, married, with five children. He is a silent,
morose man, but he has, on the whole, an excellent record in the
public service. He is unpopular with his colleagues, but a hard
worker. According to his own account, corroborated only by the
word of his wife, he was at home the whole of Monday evening
after office hours, and his key has never left the watch-chain
upon which it hangs."
  "Tell us about Cadogan West."
  "He has been ten years in the service and has done good
work. He has the reputation of being hot-headed and impetuous,
but a straight, honest man. We have nothing against him. He was
next to Sidney Johnson in the office. His duties brought him into
daily, personal contact with the plans. No one else had the
handling of them."
  "Who locked the plans up that night?"
  "Mr. Sidney Johnson, the senior clerk."
  "Well, it is surely perfectly clear who took them away. They
are actually found upon the person of this junior clerk, Cadogan
West. That seems final, does it not?"
  "It does, Sherlock, and yet it leaves so much unexplained. In
the first place, why did he take them?"
  "I presume they were of value?"
  "He could have got several thousands for them very easily."
  "Can you suggest any possible motive for taking the papers to
London except to sell them?"
  "No, I cannot."
  "Then we must take that as our working hypothesis. Young
West took the papers. Now this could only be done by having a
false key --"
  "Several false keys. He had to open the building and the
room."
  "He had, then, several false keys. He took the papers to
London to sell the secret, intending, no doubt, to have the plans
themselves back in the safe next morning before they were
missed. While in London on this treasonable mission he met his
end."
  "How?"
  "We will suppose that he was travelling back to Woolwich
when he was killed and thrown out of the compartment."
  "Aldgate, where the body was found, is considerably past the
station for London Bridge, which would be his route to
Woolwich."
  "Many circumstances could be imagined under which he would
pass London Bridge. There was someone in the carriage, for
example, with whom he was havitlg an absorbing interview. This
interview led to a violent scene in which he lost his life. Possibly
he tried to leave the carriage, fell out on the line, and so met his
end. The other closed the door. There was a thick fog, and
nothing could be seen."
  "No better explanation can be given with our present knowl-
edge; and yet consider, Sherlock, how much you leave un-
touched. We will suppose, for argument's sake, that young
Cadogan West had determined to convey these papers to Lon-
don. He would naturally have made an appointment with the
foreign agent and kept his evening clear. Instead of that he took
two tickets for the theatre, escorted his fiancee halfway there,
and then suddenly disappeared."
  "A blind," said Lestrade, who had sat listening with some
impatience to the conversation.
  "A very singular one. That is objection No. 1. Objection No.
2: We will suppose that he reaches London and sees the foreign
agent. He must bring back the papers before morning or the loss
will be discovered. He took away ten. Only seven were in his
pocket. What had become of the other three? He certainly would
not leave them of his own free will. Then, again, where is the
price of his treason? One would have expected to find a large
sum of money in his pocket."
  "It seems to me perfectly clear," said Lestrade. "I have no
doubt at all as to what occurred. He took the papers to sell them.
He saw the agent. They could not agree as to price. He started
home again, but the agent went with him. In the train the agent
murdered him, took the more essential papers, and threw his
body from the carriage. That would account for everything,
would it not?"
  "Why had he no ticket?"
  "The ticket would have shown which station was nearest the
agent's house. Therefore he took it from the murdered man's
pocket."
  "Good, Lestrade, very good," said Holmes. "Your theory
holds together. But if this is true, then the case is at an end. On
the one hand, the traitor is dead. On the other, the plans of the
Bruce-Partington submarine are presumably already on the Con-
tinent. What is there for us to do?"
  "To act, Sherlock -- to act!" cried Mycroft, springing to his
feet. "All my instincts are against this explanation. Use your
powers! Go to the scene of the crime! See the people concerned!
Leave no stone unturned! In all your career you have never had
so great a chance of serving your country."
  "Well, well!" said Holmes, shrugging his shoulders. "Come,
Watson! And you, Lestrade, could you favour us with your
company for an hour or two? We will begin our investigation by
a visit to Aldgate Station. Good-bye, Mycroft. I shall let you
have a report before evening, but I warn you in advance that you
have little to expect."
  An hour later Holmes, Lestrade and I stood upon the Under-
ground railroad at the point where it emerges from the tunnel
immediately before Aldgate Station. A courteous red-faced old
gentleman represented the railway company.
  "This is where the young man's body lay," said he, indicat-
ing a spot about three feet from the metals. "It could not have
fallen from above, for these, as you see, are all blank walls.
Therefore, it could only have come from a train, and that train,
so far as we can trace it, must have passed about midnight on
Monday."
  "Have the carriages been examined for any sign of violence?"
  "There are no such signs, and no ticket has been found."
  "No record of a door being found open?"
  "None."
  "We have had some fresh evidence this morning," said
Lestrade. "A passenger who passed Aldgate in an ordinary
Metropolitan train about 11:40 on Monday night declares that he
heard a heavy thud, as of a body striking the line, just before the
train reached the station. There was dense fog, however, and
nothing could be seen. He made no report of it at the time. Why
whatever is the matter with Mr. Holmes?"
  My friend was standing with an expression of strained inten-
sity upon his face, staring at the railway metals where they
curved out of the tunnel. Aldgate is a junction, and there was a
network of points. On these his eager, questioning eyes were
fixed, and I saw on his keen, alert face that tightening of the
lips, that quiver of the nostrils, and concentration of the heavy
tufted brows which I knew so well.
  "Points," he muttered, "the points."
  "What of it? What do you mean?"
  "I suppose there are no great number of points on a system
such as this?"
  "No; there are very few."
  "And a curve, too. Points, and a curve. By Jove! if it were
only so."
  "What is it, Mr. Holmes? Have you a clue?"
  "An idea -- an indication, no more. But the case certainly
grows in interest. Unique, perfectly unique, and yet why not? I
do not see any indications of bleeding on the line."
  "There were hardly any."
  "But I understand that there was a considerable wound."
  "The bone was crushed, but there was no great external
injury."
  "And yet one would have expected some bleeding. Would it
be possible for me to inspect the train which contained the
passenger who heard the thud of a fall in the fog?"
  "I fear not, Mr. Holmes. The train has been broken up before
now, and the carriages redistributed."
  "I can assure you, Mr. Holmes," said Lestrade, "that every
carriage has been carefully examined. I saw to it myself."
  It was one of my friend's most obvious weaknesses that he
was impatient with less alert intelligences than his own.
  "Very likely," said he, turning away. "As it happens, it was
not the carriages which I desired to examine. Watson, we have
done all we can here. We need not trouble you any further, Mr.
Lestrade. I think our investigations must now carry us to
Woolwich."
  At London Bridge, Holmes wrote a telegram to his brother,
which he handed to me before dispatching it. It ran thus:

      See some light in the darkness, but it may possibly flicker
    out. Meanwhile, please send by messenger, to await return
    at Baker Street, a complete list of all foreign spies or
    international agents known to be in England, with full
    address.
                                                       SHERLOCK.
      
  "That should be helpful, Watson," he remarked as we took
our seats in the Woolwich train. "We certainly owe Brother
Mycroft a debt for having introduced us to what promises to be a
really very remarkable case."
  His eager face still wore that expression of intense and high-
strung energy, which showed me that some novel and suggestive
circumstance had opened up a stimulating line of thought. See
the foxhound with hanging ears and drooping tail as it lolls about
the kennels, and compare it with the same hound as, with
gleaming eyes and straining muscles, it runs upon a breast-high
scent -- such was the change in Holmes since the morning. He
was a different man from the limp and lounging figure in the
mouse-coloured dressing-gown who had prowled so restlessly
only a few hours before round the fog-girt room.
  "There is material here. There is scope," said he. "I am dull
indeed not to have understood its possibilities."
  "Even now they are dark to me."
  "The end is dark to me also, but I have hold of one idea
which may lead us far. The man met his death elsewhere, and
his body was on the roof of a carriage."
  "On the roof!"
  "Remarkable, is it not? But consider the facts. Is it a coinci-
dence that it is found at the very point where the train pitches
and sways as it comes round on the points? Is not that the place
where an object upon the roof might be expected to fall off? The
points would affect no object inside the train. Either the body fell
from the roof, or a very curious coincidence has occurred. But
now consider the question of the blood. Of course, there was no
bleeding on the line if the body had bled elsewhere. Each fact is
suggestive in itself. Together they have a cumulative force."
  "And the ticket, too!" I cried.
  "Exactly. We could not explain the absence of a ticket. This
would explain it. Everything fits together."
  "But suppose it were so, we are still as far as ever from
unravelling the mystery of his death. Indeed, it becomes not
simpler but stranger."
  "Perhaps," said Holmes thoughtfully, "perhaps." He re-
lapsed into a silent reverie, which lasted until the slow train drew
up at last in Woolwich Station. There he called a cab and drew
Mycroft's paper from his pocket.
  "We have quite a little round of afternoon calls to make,"
said he. "I think that Sir James Walter claims our first attention. "
  The house of the famous official was a fine villa with green
lawns, stretching down to the Thames. As we reached it the fog
was lifting, and a thin, watery sunshine was breaking through. A
butler answered our ring.
  "Sir James, sir!" said he with solemn face. "Sir James died
this morning."
  "Good heavens!" cried Holmes in amazement. "How did he
die?"
  "Perhaps you would care to step in, sir, and see his brother,
Colonel Valentine?"
  "Yes, we had best do so."
 papers were taken.
  "It was black enough before against this young man, but our
inquiries make it blacker," he remarked as the cab lumbered off.
"His coming marriage gives a motive for the crime. He naturally
wanted money. The idea was in his head, since he spoke about
it. He nearly made the girl an accomplice in the treason by
telling her his plans. It is all very bad."
  "But surely, Holmes, character goes for something? Then,
again, why should he leave the girl in the street and dart away to
commit a felony?"
  "Exactly! There are certainly objections. But it is a formida-
ble case which they have to meet."
  Mr. Sidney Johnson, the senior clerk, met us at the office and
recelved us with that respect which my companion's card always
commanded. He was a thin, gruff, bespectacled man of middle
age, his cheeks haggard, and his hands twitching from the
nervous strain to which he had been subjected.
  "It is bad, Mr. Holmes, very bad! Have you heard of the
death of the chief?"
  "We have just come from his house."
  "The place is disorganized. The chief dead, Cadogan West
dead, our papers stolen. And yet, when we closed our door on
Monday evening, we were as efficient an office as any in the
government service. Good God, it's dreadful to think of! That
West, of all men, should have done such a thing!"
  "You are sure of his guilt, then?"
  "I can see no other way out of it. And yet I would have trusted
him as I trust myself."
  "At what hour was the office closed on Monday?"
  "At five."
  "Did you close it?"
  "I am always the last man out."
  "Where were the plans?"
  "In that safe. I put them there myself."
  "Is there no watchman to the building?"
  "There is, but he has other departments to look after as well.
He is an old soldier and a most trustworthy man. He saw nothing
that evening. Of course the fog was very thick."
  "Suppose that Cadogan West wished to make his way into the
building after hours; he would need three keys, would he not,
before he could reach the papers?"
  "Yes, he would. The key of the outer door, the key of the
office, and the key of the safe."
  "Only Sir James Walter and you had those keys?"
  "I had no keys of the doors -- only of the safe."
  "Was Sir James a man who was orderly in his habits?"
  "Yes, I think he was. I know that so far as those three keys
are concerned he kept them on the same ring. I have often seen
them there."
  "And that ring went with him to London?"
  "He said so."
  "And your key never left your possession?"
  "Never."
  "Then West, if he is the culprit, must have had a duplicate.
And yet none was found upon his body. One other point: if a
clerk in this office desired to sell the plans, would it not be
simpler to copy the plans for himself than to take the originals,
as was actually done?"
  "It would take considerable technical knowledge to copy the
plans in an effective way."
  "But I suppose either Sir James, or you, or West had that
technical knowledge?"
  "No doubt we had, but I beg you won't try to drag me into
the matter, Mr. Holmes. What is the use of our speculating in
this way when the original plans were actually found on West?"
  "Well, it is certainly singular that he should run the risk of
taking originals if he could safely have taken copies, which
would have equally served his turn."
  "Singular, no doubt -- and yet he did so."
  "Every inquiry in this case reveals something inexplicable.
Now there are three papers still missing. They are, as I under-
stand, the vital ones."
  "Yes, that is so."
  "Do you mean to say that anyone holding these three papers
and without the seven others, could construct a Bruce-Partington
submarine?"
  "I reported to that effect to the Admiralty. But to-day I have
been over the drawings again, and I am not so sure of it. The
double valves with the automatic self-adjusting slots are drawn in
one of the papers which have been returned. Until the foreigners
had invented that for themselves they could not make the boat.
Of course they might soon get over the difficulty."
  "But the three missing drawings are the most important?"
  "Undoubtedly."
  "I think, with your permission, I will now take a stroll round
me premises. I do not recall any other question which I desired
to ask."
  He examined the lock of the safe, the door of the room, and
finally the iron shutters of the window. It was only when we
were on the lawn outside that his interest was strongly excited.
There was a laurel bush outside the window, and several of the
branches bore signs of having been twisted or snapped. He
examined them carefully with his lens, and then some dim and
vague marks upon the earth beneath. Finally he asked the chief
clerk to close the iron shutters, and he pointed out to me that
they hardly met in the centre, and that it would be possible for
anyone outside to see what was going on within the room.
